This is Jocko podcast number one 38 with Echo Charles and me,
Jocko Willink.
Good Evening Echo.
Good evening,
sir.
The young seal whispered in a faint voice.
Come here.
Our hands were clasped in handshake,
not a formal handshake like two businessmen,
but palm to palm with thumbs wrapped around the back of the hand like an arm
wrestling contest.
I handshake of brotherhood.
The young seal was feeling the morphine.
I saw his eyes,
but he was still there.
Still conscious and aware
he was everything.
A young man should be smart,
brave,
athletic,
funny,
loyal,
and tough.
Okay.
He had been shot in the leg about a half an hour before.
I found out later that Mikey Monsoor,
a young seal machine gunner had run out into heavy enemy gunfire and drag this
seal out of a war torn street in the Malawi district in the city of Ramadi,
the violent heart of the insurgency in Iraq.
You're wounded.
Seal now,
lay on a Gurney and Charlie med,
the Camp Ramadi field hospital where u s military surgical teams worked
furiously to save the lives of gravely wounded troops almost every day.
Okay.
The bullet,
a mammoth armor piercing 7.62 by 54 millimeter round with a steel core had
entered his leg at the lower thigh,
ripped apart flesh and bone inside his leg and exited in his upper thigh,
close to the groin.
It was hard to say if he would keep his leg
from the looks of the wound.
My guests was no,
he would lose it.
The wounded seals grip on my hand tightened and he pulled me in drawing me just
inches from his face.
I could tell he wanted to say something to me,
so I turned and put my ear to his next to his mouth.
Yeah,
I wasn't sure what to expect.
Was he scared or angry or depressed that he might lose his leg?
Was he nervous about what might happen next?
Was He confused?
He took a breath and then whispered,
sir,
let me stay.
Let me stay.
Please don't make me go home.
I'll do anything.
I'll sweep up around the camp.
I can heal here.
Please,
please,
please just let stay with the task unit.
There you go.
Not Scared,
not angry,
not depressed,
that he might lose his leg,
only concerned that he might have to leave our task unit
task unit bruiser our task unit,
our lives.
This seal was our first significant casualty.
We had had guys catch some frag on previous operations.
We had had some very close calls,
but this was the first seal wounded from task unit bruiser whose life would be
forever changed by a grave combat injury.
Even if he kept his leg,
the damage was so substantial that it didn't seem possible he would ever fully
regain the extraordinary athleticism he had displayed previously
and yet this seal was only concerned that he would let me down,
that the task unit down,
let it debt his platoon and his team down.
This was a man.
This was a true friend,
a brother.
This was a hero,
young,
brave,
and without question,
more concerned for his friends than for his own life.
I was moved.
I felt tears welling up in my eyes.
I fought them back.
Then I swallowed the lump in my throat.
Okay.
This was no time to break down.
I was supposed to be the leader
and he needed me to be strong.
Oh.
And that right there is from the opening chapter of a book called the dichotomy
of leadership,
which is actually a new book.
And it was written by me and my brother Leif Babin
and leaf has been on this podcast before.
We wrote extreme ownership together.
We obviously served in tasking at bruiser bruiser together
and he was on this podcasts.
He was the first guest.
He's the
been the guests most times he was on 11.
He was on 34 65 and one 14.
If you want to go get some background on life.
But I'm glad to say that he is actually vacuum.
Right.
This again,
it's a Leif Babin welcome back.
It's good to be back.
Thanks for having me.
Yeah,
right.
Oh Man.
And it's,
it's good to have you back because we're done writing and editing this book,
which feels good.
It does feel good.
It's been a lot of work,
but uh,
it's been awesome to it and being able to tell those kinds of stories like you
just read.
And,
and even though I've,
I've read that now a hundred times,
it's just takes me immediately back to that situation.
And that's just a extraordinary,
we were able to work with some incredible,
incredible seals like,
like that young man.
Yup.
No doubt about it.
The,
it's,
it's weird when you're writing a book and you're,
and then you're rereading it and rereading and rereading it and like you said,
every time I would be reading these,
these sections,
you know,
you,
you just get that,
you just,
you just can't help but go back there.
You just can't help but go back there.
And this was definitely,
there were some,
there were some parts of this book that I was writing that were,
uh,
definitely hard to write and even hard to edit.
Um,
you know,
even this,
this being one of them.
And I'm glad that we're able to share the stories of,
of guys like that.
And that particular individual,
which I don't talk about this in the book,
but he,
he,
he kept his leg,
thank God.
And,
um,
he,
he kept getting after it for years and years and he kept training Jujitsu and
he's a total stud.
Maybe sometime he'll come on the podcast or who knows,
but what a,
what a great guy.
Now you are,
you also kind of kicked off the book with what I thought was a,
was like a solid way to kick it off.
And you should,
you should go into that.
I know we were,
we were trying to pick out some good sections here,
but I thought the opener that you put in,
which you opened with a phrase that we've been using quite a bit lately,
but kickoff that,
that,
uh,
introduction to the book dichotomy leadership
stand
by to get some said someone over the inner squad radio and the calm demeanor,
you might expect it,
but flight attendant telling airline passengers to stowed their tray tables for
landing the street in front of us had emptied of people like magic.
The local citizens at all suddenly disappeared.
And we knew what that meant.
Enemy attack was imminent.
The hair on the back of my neck stood at rigid attention after many of vicious
gunfight Ramadi standby to get some was a running joke that ease the tension
right when we knew trouble was coming.
The more nonchalantly it can be said under the direst of circumstances.
The funnier it
it was broad daylight is our patrol of seals and Iraqi soldiers made its way on
foot down the narrow city street bordered by high concrete walls on both sides.
Suddenly the world exploded.
Dozens of bullet snap to the air,
each with a sharp supersonic crack and smashed into the concrete wall next to me
with thunderous impact.
Shards of concrete flew everywhere.
The heavy volleys of incoming fire sounded like multiple jackhammers
simultaneously chewing up the street and the walls all around us.
We had walked right into an enemy.
Buzz saw in seargent.
Fighters hit us from multiple directions with belt fed machine guns.
I couldn't see them or where they were shooting from,
but the number,
the number of enemy bullets flying through the air around us was crazy.
There was no place to hide with high walls on both sides.
The narrow south central Amati street provided no cover.
The only thing between us and the enemy machine guns was a single part car on
the side of the road.
Some distance up the block and the typical trash stone about the patrol was in a
dual column formation.
Each column Split on opposite sides of the street.
How could close to the walls?
There was nothing to get behind the could protect us from bullets,
but we did have something on our side,
devastating firepower.
We fully expected a firefighter on every patrol and have this enemy hill
neighborhood and we rolled in heavy each squad of eight seals pack at least for
belt fed machine guns to suppress any enemy attack we encountered when we came
under fire.
Our immediate response with violent and overwhelming gunfire provided the only
answer cover and move.
Having learned to the humbling experience of months of urban combat task unit,
bruiser had had plenty of practice in this fundamental gun fighting principle
with a nanoseconds.
The seals with a big machine,
guns up front unleashed the most ruthless and lethal barrage of fire.
You could imagine despite the intensity and violence of the close urban combat,
I couldn't help but smile.
Couldn't help with smile.
Yeah,
that's a,
we've said this before,
but obviously guys that had been to a war,
usually that's the best thing in their life and the best experiences they've had
in their lives.
And it gives you that,
that type of feeling right there of weak,
you can't help but smile.
And then,
you know,
as I just talked about and as we both know,
it's also the worst days of our lives are also there.
And we know that,
you know,
people are in the military,
all field,
most of them feel the same way that you have your best days and,
and your worst days there.
And it's interesting you cover and move.
It's just,
it always comes back to cover and move in these,
in these gun fights and you know,
a client we were working with recently and you know,
remember he switched around cover and move and made it yeah.
Uh,
second
and put put simple first and it's like,
well,
there's a reason that that exists that way.
Cover move is first because if you're not working together as a team,
there's no,
there's nothing to even keep simple that's not happening.
You just,
you need to start off with cover,
move.
Teamwork is critical and obviously we just read a couple of sort of a war story
ish type things,
but like extreme ownership.
This book's kind of set up the same way as extreme ownership.
I mean,
well not,
not kind of.
It is set up the same way as extreme ownership,
which is a story about combat that reveals a principal and then actually state
what the principal is and then we use a business example that shows how this
principle applies in civilian life and usually in the business world,
in fact,
always in the business world that's,
those are the examples that we use.
Although we could probably do another book that was about how these principles
apply to your under nine year old soccer team or your relationship with your
spouse or your relationship with your teenage daughters.
Two of them or your relationship with your teenage son,
one of them or your relationship with your nine year old daughter or your,
what do you got threes and fours,
a three.
And until you get some absolutely flies,
it ain't going absolutely bloody any of those situations.
I think that was,
that was what was amazing about extreme ownership,
um,
to see how people apply that in so many aspects of their lives.
And now I think w with dichotomy of leadership,
it's exactly the same thing.
Yeah.
It applies across all aspects of a professional and personal lives too.
Cause when,
when,
you know,
when I got out of the teams,
like I didn't understand,
I didn't understand the broad application of what we knew.
I didn't,
I mean when I started working with civilian companies then it's like,
oh well this is your problem.
You don't keep things simple enough for this is your problem.
You don't have decentralized command.
So you're trying to control all the decisions made.
It's,
but as soon as we realized,
well,
and I realized it was like,
oh,
it applies to this company.
Well what about this company?
And then,
okay,
what about this company?
And you just realize,
okay,
and that's when I started just seeing it everywhere and,
and I think,
yeah,
exactly right.
The dichotomy of leadership is the same way and it,
well,
like I said,
it's not just a book of war stories.
The,
the point of the book is to make people better leaders is to give them
leadership tools including me,
including you.
Like when you write stuff down you understand it better.
And so you know,
part of writing these books it's like,
okay,
how can I capture these lessons for myself?
And of course it's nice that other people can grab them then and look through
them.
But like I said,
it's not,
it's not just about war stories but to make people better leaders.
And I think,
I think we covered that pretty well in sort of in the intro of the book and just
a couple paragraphs and you should hit that part that we talked about earlier
where it just kind of gives the overall the overall view or the,
the high level view of the topic of the book.
Every behavior or characteristic carried out by leader can be taken too far.
Leaders can become too extreme and upset the balance required to effectively
lead a team.
When balances lost,
leadership suffers and the team's performance rapidly declines.
Even the fundamental principles of combat leadership and extreme ownership can
get out of balance.
A leader can cover and move too much and step on the toes of other leaders,
departments or divisions.
A plan can be too simple and fail to cover life that can Tennessee's a team
could go too far with prioritize and execute resulting and target fixation and
loss of situational awareness on newly emerging problems and threats.
Even decent advice.
Command can be taken too far when too much autonomy is given to subordinate
leaders who then don't fully understand strategic goals and how to execute and
support those goals.
And this idea continues on,
but just about everything a leader does.
Leaders must be close with their people,
but not too close that it becomes a problem.
They must hold the line with discipline,
but they must not become tyrannical.
A leader can even become too extreme with extreme ownership.
When a leader takes so much ownership of everything in his or her world,
that members of the team feel there's nothing left for which they can take
ownership.
When this happens,
team members will execute only at the boss's specific direction without any root
ownership or buying themselves,
resulting in a team far less capable of overcoming obstacles and accomplishing
the mission.
Therefore,
balance in leadership is crucial to victory.
You can't say that one enough and you literally can't say that one enough.
I was thinking,
so when you have the same word to many time on all times on a page,
it's,
it's not good writing,
right?
It's not good.
Use the same word over and over again.
So I remember there was times where we would have the word balance like nine
times in a paragraph,
but there's,
it's like,
hey,
there's no real other way to say what we're trying to say.
You got to balance these things.
And it's interesting too,
as as as you're reading that,
I'm just thinking of all the different situations we've been in and the last few
years with echelon front where we've seen every single one of these things.
You know the person that comes up,
hey,
we want to keep this plan simple and then they don't think of any contingencies
or hey,
I'm just trying to cover and move and that means I'm going to go in to do their
job for them.
And all of a sudden they're making everyone mad cause they're stepping on
everyone toes.
I mean decentralized command where no one knows what's going on because it's
like,
Hey,
I'm a hands off leader.
I'm using decentralized command,
but boss,
what in God's name do you actually want us to do?
So all of these things are,
are,
we've lived,
we've lived through them now and it became really evident even though we have,
you know,
that's the last chapter.
The last chapter in extreme ownership is the dichotomy of leadership and
discipline equals freedom.
And you know,
we put it in there because we knew it was important.
But now after working with more people over the past few years,
it's become so obvious that this
is like such a critical,
the been able to balance,
balance,
balance.
I you can use that word nine times in every paragraph because that's what you
have to do if you're a leader.
And,
and we talk about this too in the opening of,
in the opening of the book and the email and the opening of dichotomy
leadership,
we talk about how one of the problems with the book extreme ownership is the
title extreme ownership.
Cause it made everyone just want to get extreme with everything.
I'm going to be super extreme.
And so that means you know what,
I'm going to do what?
Get extreme on the own.
Everything.
And we,
that was one of the earliest things that I started noticing was people that took
so much ownership.
So I'm a leader,
I'm in charge and I take so much ownership of everything that everyone below me
in the chain of command,
there's nothing left for them to own.
And,
and all of a sudden they're just feel like,
hey,
they're just along for the ride and they're just gonna do what they're told to
do and all their initiative is gone.
And they don't,
they don't even have,
they don't,
it's not that they don't believe,
but they just think,
okay,
well we're just going to do what we're told so it's not their plan.
And so they're going to do the best of their ability,
but it's not theirs.
They don't own it.
So all those things that you just talked about are,
are,
are things that we've,
we've now seen.
And there are things that I struggle with.
You know,
I think there's,
there are things that you struggle.
I think we,
each of us struggle with them.
It's the hardest part about leadership.
And as we've seen that over and over again,
that,
you know,
that brief introduction that we gave it in chapter 12 of extreme ownership,
uh,
you know,
introduce the concept,
but this dives so much deeper into those challenges.
And I,
and I think that's what,
what I love about this book is it answers the questions to that,
that we get most often about,
about how to balance that because that's the hardest part.
Uh,
and it's so difficult to do.
And I remember at our first muster,
there was a question about,
you know,
can you take,
can extreme ownership go too far?
I actually answered the question.
Well,
I think if you're properly understanding what extreme ownership means,
no.
Uh,
but,
but you actually answered that as I was like,
absolutely,
you can take too much ownership.
And I think that's what people take that as well.
I've got to do everything.
Like,
no,
you,
you're responsible for everything.
That's what extreme ownership means.
Uh,
but certainly a,
you can,
you can absolutely take too much ownership where no one's doing anything.
And I think we explained that pretty well in this book and this,
this book was written just like extreme ownership dichotomy of leadership was
written to help leaders as a reference manual.
And if it's someone that,
you know,
if I see pages,
uh,
like we see so many copies of extreme ownership,
I mean,
I,
I want to see pages that are underlying,
that are highlighted there,
tad that are,
they're utilized by leaders.
And,
uh,
and if we've done that and this is a manual that helps a leaders lead better and
be better people and lead better teams that then this will have accomplished as
measured.
You know,
what's cool is,
is I think it's very similar to the fact that with extreme ownership,
right,
with that attitude where that attitude,
when you get in that mindset,
you start seeing it everywhere and you start,
when someone makes an excuse,
you,
you recognize me to go,
that's an excuse.
Like,
echo has given you a hard time about your,
your lack of a haircut
and,
and you know,
you were,
you were saying,
but it's my fault.
And we were laughing about it.
Right?
And,
and of course I was,
I was like,
well,
you know,
I should've,
I should've told you,
you know,
there's going to be a timeline and you need to get a haircut before.
But you know,
we're joking about it,
but in the same time that we're joking about it,
the fact that like you brought that echo that up is a real thing.
And for us to be sitting here joking about it means that we actually think about
it.
We actually,
every time you,
you know,
layoffs,
making it a joke and excuse like,
oh,
jockey,
he's,
it's like we all know and it's uh,
it's,
it's uh,
it sinks in and it becomes really hard for someone to make an actual excuse
becomes really,
really hard.
And I think for me that's one thing that I've benefited over the last few years.
I've seen other people what it becomes,
when you're aware of it,
the balance becomes much,
much easier to see.
And that's what I think is going to be very helpful about this book is people
won't know that they're out of balance.
That's the biggest problem.
The biggest problem.
They don't know.
They're thinking,
my guys aren't taking any initiative.
What's wrong with them?
And it's like,
well,
you're micromanaging them.
You've gone too far in that direction.
You've gone too far and controlling everything that they do,
they think that they think that if you want them to do something,
that you're going to tell him to do it.
And other than that,
they're going to sit there and stand by and wait for orders.
And it's like no.
So W and you've,
if you don't understand that you can be out of balance,
then you won't recognize that.
But if you know,
hey,
my guys aren't taking it in any initiative,
I wonder what's wrong with them?
Well actually maybe it's me,
maybe it's me and maybe I am micromanaging them so much that I've beaten the
initiative out of them.
So what I need to do is back off a little bit and give them some leeway and give
them some ownership of what they're doing and let them make some decisions down
there.
And if,
if you do that,
then you start seeing it come back and you start seeing them take initiative and
you feel good.
And that's a,
you know,
one of the chapters in the book is actually that right there where I talk about
my first deployment to Iraq,
where I first got to Iraq my first time in combat,
I was just basically wanting to own everything because that was my,
that's my personality.
I'm going to take ownership of this.
And then I realized my guys might call on,
you know,
if they're not really taking the initiative,
I want them to take,
well,
why is that?
It's because I'm micromanaging them.
And finally,
luckily we got overwhelmed with operations.
We had so many operations to conduct and I was like,
I can't,
I can't manage all these,
I can't oversee everything that's happening.
And I had to cut the guys loose and as soon as I caught him loose and said,
hey,
you got this and you've got that and you've got the other thing,
the guys just start stepping up and running everything.
Like I knew,
like,
like of course they could,
cause they're freaking highly capable guys.
And they started kicking ass and I realize like,
oh,
I don't even barely even need to be here right?
Barely even need to be here.
Whereas in the beginning I thought,
oh,
this is all,
if it wasn't for me,
you know,
and I'm only talking about a period of a few weeks of me trying to micromanage
everything.
So I think what's going to be beneficial about this book is that people will
see how they can get out of balance and,
and they'll also see that that balance pertains to just about everything.
And every trait that you have that's positive as a leader,
you can overdo and you can turn it into a negative trait if you go too far.
So you gotta watch out for that.
You definitely got to watch out for that.
It's easy for us to see,
you know,
we always talk about the attachment and attachment.
So important.
And for us,
what,
you know,
through our company asked a lot of fraud,
it's,
we're working with these leaders and working with these companies,
you,
you can see it,
you know,
it just,
it just stands out.
Uh,
so obvious that someone is,
you know,
they're trying to cover,
move I helping another department and yet they're stepping on people's toes.
And they're pissing people off and you know,
like,
why are you,
you know,
you're trying to do my job and make me look bad.
And they were like,
well,
I'm trying to cover move just like you told me.
I'm just trying to help.
And then you're saying,
well,
you have to be careful about that.
You'd have to,
you'd have to balance it.
And so once it is the absolute most common problem we see all the time,
and,
and even for folks that have read extreme ownership,
you know,
three or four,
multiple times that,
that are really trying hard to be better leaders,
they struggle with that.
And this is a something to help them,
uh,
and help leaders everywhere.
And I,
you know,
and we wrote the book too so that it can be read.
Um,
it's,
it's a follow on certainly a sequel.
Uh,
you gave me a chance to correct that.
Why would you say,
what'd you say?
You were talking about jaws to buck has one 14 and I said it's not a sequel,
it's a standalone book,
but it absolutely is a sequel and it's a follow on book.
Um,
it expands on the concepts.
However we did ride it so that that it is a standalone book you can read,
you can read extreme emotion if you have,
if you can read dichotomy without having read extreme ownership,
you'll certainly understand it and be able to apply it.
Yeah.
But you understand the concepts better if you read extreme ownership first,
no question.
And then you jump into dichotomy,
which yeah,
like I said,
can you read it alone?
Sure you can.
I guess there's echo we need like some kind of a movie reference here.
She's like,
yeah,
I'm thinking term.
Could you see terminator two on its own right.
But you will,
you will get more out of it if you saw terminate or one first.
Correct.
Same with around.
He look at me just nailing,
nailing it.
Yeah.
So ramble.
Right.
First blood part too.
Same deal where you could watch just Rambo and be pretty,
pretty happy about it.
But hold on.
Now my problem with that is we know that terminator two is equivalent in quality
to terminate her one.
Correct?
Correct.
Right.
Yeah.
I think so too.
It was awesome.
Except for the kid.
Are we saying,
are we saying that a better Jambo too?
Which I don't even think I've seen first blood part too.
Yeah,
I don't is are we saying that's the same level of quality as Rambo for why you
gotta be careful there?
And that's what I think.
That's where I figured,
I mean,
I'm not saying it's jaws to which jaws one,
which is a masterpiece,
right?
Masterpiece jaws,
jaws one,
jaws time called Jasmine,
she's called jaws jaws.
Too problematic.
We've got issues.
So what I'm saying is we're more like the terminator scenario.
Gotcha.
Or,
or there's aliens,
aliens that you can totally watch that movie standalone.
Uh,
but obviously it gives you some more context if you watched the first one.
But I think the second one's actually better.
Yeah.
You feel like,
do you feel like dichotomies better?
I actually do.
I actually do feel,
I feel it's better.
I mean,
I've,
I'm interested to hear what readers think about it,
but I think that it's more useful and applicable to a t to leaders.
Uh,
I mean we,
we have three years,
uh,
additional leadership experience and not only evaluating our experiences in
combat and in the seal teams,
but,
uh,
but now working with hundreds of leaders and,
I mean really we're talking,
you know,
a couple of hundred plus companies that we've worked with in that time,
um,
easily,
you know,
between Jesse,
me and you,
probably not,
that's not even counting some of the other members of our team.
So,
um,
we,
we've seen this in a,
in a whole lot of different scenarios and I think it really addresses the,
it's a direct application to the problems that we see.
Um,
so I'm,
I'm pretty awful and I'm looking forward to it too.
To Reader's feedback on it.
Was it easier for you to write?
Yes.
Yeah.
I mean,
for me it definitely was,
and I say easier just because we've,
we,
well,
we became better writers as we wrote extreme ownership,
extreme ownership.
The first version that we did,
extreme ownership was in the third person.
And I forget why we even did that,
but we was about these two guys named Leif and Jocko,
and it was about,
I don't know,
I forgot,
kind of forget.
I think it was a recommendation that came to us from the litter age here,
the publisher,
whatever.
And we know,
then we finally had to say,
yeah,
we're not doing that.
Uh,
you know,
that friend of yours that talks about themselves in the third person that you
met?
Yeah.
We're not going to do that.
So,
and it's weird because there's the book,
there's a couple of books I've done with the podcast,
clay pigeons in St Lo buy Glover Johns,
who's the guy that you Hackworth wrote about,
he wrote the book Clay Pigeons,
Clay Pigeons in St Lo,
and it's in the third person about a guy named major John's and it's him.
And he writes a thing in the beginning and says,
Hey,
I didn't feel comfortable talking about myself.
So I did it,
wrote it this way.
It's like,
okay.
And the,
the only thing I would say that's cool about it is you could,
he could kind of give an outside view,
but the thing that's not cool about it is he couldn't be,
I was thinking this right now,
which is kind of what I want to hear.
And that's why normally cover books that are first person,
people that actually experience it.
But he's the guy that did a couple other people have when you're gone,
when you're glove or John's though and your,
you're uh,
David Hackworth.
See Daddy,
I think you can do whatever you want to do,
what you want for sure.
Uh,
now that's another part that's again,
you
know,
we've,
we've in this book,
we set it up the same way with combat story principal followed by a business
example.
But one thing that I think,
and this is feedback that,
that we both got that I certainly got was that for what?
For?
Well because the consequences are so high in combat,
it makes the principal very clear.
And even though people might know,
well,
I've never been in combat,
but they understand that if we're not working together as a team doing cover
move,
we will die.
And so when they understand that,
they go,
oh,
okay,
now that means if I'm not working with the other department,
then we're going to lose money or we're not going to complete our mission,
or we're not going to take market share.
Yes.
So I think one of the strongest points of,
of extreme ownership that we did again is the combat stories too,
to sort of introduce the principles and plus it's cool to hear cool stories like
that,
but one of them,
I think chapter three,
another nother one that we pulled out that said it'd be good to sort of cover
this one real quick,
is you opened up chapter three with a little,
a little bit,
get some,
I guess we could say and can hit that one.
Man.
I want to,
I want to hear that one.
I want to hear the Texas Batman get crazy.
And in Ramadi in 2006 this is bringing back some awesome memories there.
Bright orange tracer streak like laser beams just a few feet over our heads,
each supersonic bullet,
zipping past with a thunderous crack.
Holy Shit.
Thought as we quickly ducked down behind the roof wall.
Those are friendly shooting at us.
I looked over at Dave Burke,
who crouched down nearby like the other seals on the roof with us.
We tried to stay low enough not to get her head shot off.
Dave looked back at me and shook his head with a smile.
Mixed humor and concern.
That's not cool.
Dave said the understatement of the year they Burke was a US Marine Corps major,
a fighter pilot by trade.
He had been the lead instructor at the legendary U s navy fighter weapons
school,
better known as top gun.
David left the cockpit behind a volunteered to serve on the ground as a forward
air controller and the most dangerous place in Iraq.
Ramadi.
He led us supporting arms liaison team or salt attach to the U S Marine Corps.
Fifth Air Naval gunfire liaison company.
Dave and his 12 marines from salt six a company,
Charlie platoon,
to coordinate with the aircraft supporting this operation and the skies
overhead.
They patrolled in with us on foot to spearhead the operation ahead of the U s
army and Iraqi army units.
A US tank 200 yards away had fired a burst from its heavy machine gun directly
over our position.
It was friendly fire,
a blue on blue and US military parlance to be killed or horribly wounded by
enemy fire was one thing to be killed by our own American forces was something
much worse that was way too close for comfort,
I thought in the seconds
following is that crouch as low as possible behind the low concrete wall.
That was our only means of cover.
We had to shut that down immediately and alert the tank that we were friendly
forces to do so.
I had to contact the specific tank commander directly via radio and tell them to
cease fire.
The tanks heavy machine gun was a 50 caliber m two browning known as the Mod
deuce.
It packed a hell of a punch and US military service since 1933 it had proven
it's deadly effectiveness in every American war since World War One.
Each massive round could take a man's head clean off or move the bulk of his
chest cavity.
It can also punch right through concrete walls like the one we were hiding
behind.
We had just received a fully automatic burst of probably a dozen rounds and a
matter of seconds.
If I didn't shut down the fire immediately and let the u s tag,
no,
we were friendlies.
It could mean horrible wounds and death for a number of us
blue on blue.
It's even an extreme ownership.
We talked,
there's three episodes of blue on blue potential or boot the out with with Chris
potentially shooting the uh,
American trooper that was in a,
in a building,
the Bradley Getting Ready to light up stoners guys in and also the blue and blue
that the book starts off with theirs.
It's,
it's interesting and a reality of war that we talk about blue on blue a lot in
that urban environment.
The other thing I noticed is did you,
I don't mean to accuse you hear like you know,
on this,
in this format,
but each massive round could take a man's head clean off.
Is that not just jacked from Clint Eastwood right there come home man,
that's 44 magnum metal dirty Harry.
Right.
I can neither confirm that too.
There's a,
the,
did you consult with echo for,
you know,
party your writing here,
Echo,
echo and I uh,
we see that out in the movie quotes.
Yes,
there was a little,
there was a use of parlance in there too that,
uh,
in the parlance parlance our times.
So you threw a little,
little big Lebowski in there that we had previously.
It looked that way.
That was a crazy situation.
And we were,
I thought we'd done everything.
What was so crazy about that situation for us is I thought we'd done everything
in our power to mitigate the risk of that and let everybody know where we were
marked our position,
you know,
talk,
talk and coordinate with people and a,
and a steel get shot at by friendlies.
Um,
you know,
they,
uh,
that was,
that was crazy.
And Dave and I were sitting looking at each other like,
man,
this,
this is good.
This isn't good at all.
So it was,
it was a,
I was foam of that radio trying to get and talk to them immediately.
Uh,
and thank God a,
as we've talked about on previous podcasts,
you'd come down on us to be able to use,
uh,
to be able to learn how to use those radios ourselves and not just rely on the
radium and,
uh,
and I was able to swap over and,
and make direct comps that tag and,
and,
and get done to cease fire.
And that's one of the things that I like completely held the line on.
And,
and w,
you know,
when you talk about in the book how there's some other things where I allowed a
little bit of slack and you actually,
you actually kind of capture that in a couple pages later that I pulled up here.
It's a middle of page 76 punch through that little section right there.
And I think it's a,
it's a good good.
Um,
kind of captures what we're talking about in terms of,
and you were saying this to me early,
earlier today,
you're like,
everyone thinks Jocko would just be lucky.
You're going to shut up and do what I tell you to do.
And it's like,
well,
actually there's some things I'm going to tell you that,
but there's some,
it's good.
There's going to be a balance.
Well,
you actually,
you never said you shut up and do,
do,
do what I tell you to do.
Right.
I'm sure you probably want it to many,
many times and still do.
I'm sure often.
But there is a,
it's not effective.
It's never effective to do that.
And I think so many leaders that want to just,
you know,
why won't they just do what I told them to do.
It's,
it's,
people get really frustrated by that.
But obviously there,
you've got to hold the line.
You absolutely have to hold the line,
you know?
And if you to relented on,
on us being able to learn how to use our radios,
I mean that could have cost lives right there.
Another verse around comes through,
it comes through the roof wall or we take a main gun round.
Now you're talking to the cannon on the tank,
the 120 millimeter main gun round,
you know,
just smash through both sides of walls,
it would,
it would have an absolute catastrophic.
Those guys think,
you know,
they're under attack,
they're shooting back at what they think is enemy.
They don't even realize it.
And it's not like they were,
they were not ready to use those main gun rounds if they had to.
They were,
they were putting some buildings down over there for sure.
And that's,
and that's the hard part,
right,
is that you've got to hold the line and their standards that can't be
compromised and you've got to,
you're failing your team and you're failing as a leader if you're not keeping
those standards a high and making sure the team achieves them.
And yet also you can't be the unrelenting task master or the slave driver that
just smashes people down and says,
shut up and do what I tell you.
This is something that I bring up a lot when I'm working with companies is like,
do you actually want people to do exam to do whatever you tell them to do?
And the the,
the immediate answers like,
well yeah,
I just want everyone to shut up and do what I tell them to do.
Well,
the actual answer is no,
you don't want that.
If you're a good leader,
what you want is if I tell Lafe,
hey,
go take that building over there and you say to me,
no.
And I say,
why not?
And you say,
well,
there was an IED in the front yard and we'll all get killed if we go there.
I've got,
okay,
thank you.
Now as opposed to you're,
you're just going to blindly do whatever I tell you to do,
well then that's going to be problematic.
So there's a balance in this too.
And,
and that's something that we talk about all the time.
But to surround you don't want to surround yourself with,
yes ma'am.
You don't want to surround yourself with yes men and we,
I've seen plenty of companies where the boss man has surrounded himself with yes
men and they yes themselves into the grave because the everyone's just agreeing
all.
Yep,
we'll do that.
That sounds like a great plan boss.
Oh yeah,
dude,
yes boss.
That sounds like a great plan boss.
And,
and the next thing you know,
someone along the line,
she just said,
hey boss,
that doesn't make any sense.
Hey boss.
Like,
oh,
we got a good relationship with these people over here.
But you know what?
They're raising the price a little bit.
We don't want to work with them anymore.
But w w okay,
well let's think about that.
You know that,
that that's one of our biggest suppliers.
Do we really want to nix our relationship with our biggest supplier?
Does that make sense?
Well,
you know,
they're getting in our face now.
A yes,
man.
It'd be like catch right boss.
We don't take no crap from,
no one will screw those guys.
But maybe you want someone below you in the chain of command says,
Hey boss,
let's think about this.
That's our biggest supplier.
If we cut them off and demand goes up,
we won't be able to service our customers.
That could be problematic.
Wouldn't you agree how,
but we negotiate with them.
Right.
So there's,
my point is you don't just want people you know,
just don't want to be surrounded by yes men.
You want people that are going to question you.
You want people that are going to be,
that's why I like you so much life.
Cause you,
you questioned,
you have no problem.
Question you wrote.
I'm saying it's all about pushing,
pushing back,
the humble,
not passive.
I,
I've never,
uh,
never been passed,
but I think this this year,
page 76.
That's a good,
that's a good little way to capture what we were talking about
as there are collected upon Jockos demonstration of a leader's responsibility to
ensure standards are maintained.
I thought about the times in my career when I failed to do so.
As a young leader.
I knew there were times we needed to improve our performance.
Do another run to the kill house where we practice close quarters combat or add
an additional rehearsal to ensure we were fully prepared.
Yet in those moments,
I sometimes hadn't held the line.
I hadn't pushed the team hard enough.
Any additional work assigned to the team was going to get pushed back and
generate complaints and there were times when I let things slide confusing.
The idea of taking care of your people with allowing them not to work as hard,
but in the end that resulted in mediocre performance and the team never got
better,
never held each other accountable.
This was a failure of leadership.
My leadership.
I also recognize the dichotomy.
There were other times when I was overbearing.
I insisted on doing things a certain way because it was my way or harped on
trivial matters that were strategically unimportant thinking I was doing right.
By holding the line,
it causes unnecessary friction,
stifled growth,
and inhibited junior leaders on the team from stepping up.
It prevented us from functioning properly with effective decentralized command.
I had seen and worked for numerous leaders throughout my navy career who had
been overbearing and it wasn't the way I wanted to lead.
Some of them imposed harsh discipline,
screamed at their people and crush the morale of the team.
No one wanted to follow them.
They might accomplish an immediate task,
but in the long run,
the team's growth was smothered.
Often they're negative example stood starkly in my mind,
I never want to be a leader like that.
There you go.
The tyrannical
leader that's running around screaming at everyone and,
and,
and like you just said,
they'll get some little tasks accomplished and they actually think that what's
horrible is they get some little task accomplished because they screamed and
yelled and it reinforces that behavior.
And so they become even more tyrannical and yell and scream even more.
And they never see the fact that acting that way.
It'll get you a little,
some little short term thing done,
but you'll never get everything you can out of people.
You never get everything you can out of somebody that you've beaten into
submission you they're not going to perform to their fullest potential.
And capability and that's just where you're going to be.
That's just where you're going to be.
The other thing
it takes this is,
this is one of those things,
like if you've got something that's hard to do,
right,
you've got something that the team has got to do,
it's hard to do and you're wishy washy about it.
You know it's the right thing to do,
but you're wishy washy about how you approach the team with doing it.
It's not going to happen.
It's just not gonna happen.
I'm reading another book right now by a guy that was in Vietnam with Hackworth
and he's saying just,
he would just lay down the law,
like Hackworth are just like,
no,
we're doing this.
This is what we're going to do,
this is how it's going to be.
And that's,
that's what it is.
You know,
I've got so many examples from my career,
but I'll tell you a really kind of a lame one,
but it's,
it's worth telling.
So back,
Bourbon,
boom,
dude,
guess what we used to do in the teams,
we used to drink beer,
a lot of it.
And that was kind of like,
hey,
you know,
we're,
we're in the stools,
you know,
were beer drinking frog men.
And that's cool.
And I was in a seal platoon where we drank a lot,
even more than a normal seal platoon,
which is,
which is once you're in the running for all lot,
and this is back in the 90s there's no war going on.
And I've said this before,
kind of the way that we proved ourselves,
because there's a certain level of sacrifice you have to make to prove to your
teammates that you're like,
you're willing to sacrifice.
Well,
one of the ways that you can sacrifice as you can just drink a lot and prove
that you can go all night and go hard and still get up the next day.
And so I was in a seal platoon where we drank a lot of just about everyone in
the chain of command,
except for the,
the,
the commander,
the OIC.
But everyone else,
you know,
we drank hard and you know,
we partied and whatever.
And we were a shipboard.
We were an arg platoon.
So we were deploying on board ship and
when we were getting ready to deploy on the ship,
that was kind of like,
oh well,
you know,
we'll just,
cause you're not allowed to drink any alcohol on the ship.
You're not allowed to have any alcohol.
You're not allowed to drink any alcohol.
You can after 90 days at sea,
you can get a beer day.
They give you,
what was it,
45 back when I was in.
So you get,
you get one beer at 45 days.
So they gave us a two beers.
But I will say they gave us fosters.
So they were big oil cans.
Right.
But if you're living large,
I did too.
Two beer days in one deployment anyways,
you're not allowed other than that,
you're not allowed to drink.
That's the rules.
And so I think it wasn't like we openly discuss like how are we going to smuggle
bureau?
Maybe we did a little bit,
but our bosses came down to like,
yeah,
well there's no drinking,
no drinking on the ship.
And we were like,
okay,
those are the rules.
They just came down and put the rules down like,
Hey,
no drinking on the ship and I had respect for my office or my platoon commander
at the time had respect for my platoon chief at the time and they came down and
said,
yeah,
well there's no drinking on ships so don't even think about it.
We're like,
okay cool.
That's the law came down and we just got on board and we just got on board with
it.
Whereas if it would have been,
well you know a little bit of a wishy washiness us young eve threes,
fours and fives,
if they would have been remotely wishy washy would it,
I'm like,
oh cool,
you guys go drink whatever you want.
Just don't let us see it or whatever.
And that would have been bad.
Cause eventually guess what?
You put a bunch of seals on a ship with,
with booze,
and you leave them on there for multiple days at sea,
months at sea,
while they're gonna have an incident of some kind,
they're going to get a fight.
They're going to throw up somewhere.
They're going to be,
you know,
just dumb stuff's got to get to the highest level of attention is going to be a
total,
it's going to be a total disaster.
So the idea of actually just stepping up and holding the line,
and I'll tell you what I learned as a leader,
is it's liberating to do that.
It's liberating to say,
hey look,
here's the rules.
And,
and you know,
I did this with the fact of when we got back to Ramadi,
we got to Ramadi and they told us we had to work with Iraqi soldiers and
everyone was kind of hemming and hawing about having to work with Iraqi
soldiers.
And I told you guys don't even submit a concept of operations without Iraqi
Don't even submit it cause we're not doing it.
And you guys were like,
okay,
got it.
Yeah,
it is super liberating.
I think that's the,
you know,
one of the things that,
that I,
that I learned from you as we started working together.
I mean it,
and I talked to me about this all the time I've talked about on the podcast
before,
but it was the kind of things that you know,
you probably should be doing,
but for whatever reason you are and,
and you know,
for,
you could just put in perspective for me of like it's very black and white.
I'm like,
no,
if you're not,
if you're not holding the line on these things that are important and pushing
your team to perform at the highest standard or making sure they're not going to
do something that's going to get them in trouble or cause massive issues,
not only for us but for the entire,
you know,
not on,
for our unit with the entire seal teams,
then,
then that's,
you're failing them as a leader.
You've got to hold the light on that stuff.
You've got to,
and it is very liberating to say,
oh,
check,
okay,
that's the way it is.
And I,
and I think that ambiguity is very frustrating for people that they don't know
what's right and you don't know what's wrong and they can get away with stuff.
Yeah.
That's what I was going to say is,
but the people below you in the chain of command,
they get frustrated because they're like,
well,
what does that mean?
And they're going to push it to the envelope that they,
this guy got away with it over here with that guy.
Did you know?
I mean,
that's,
yeah.
Those are the kinds of things where their needs,
there's got to be a standard.
You got to hold that standard and it's,
I,
it,
the team is so much better off when you do that.
And certainly bruiser absolutely was.
And this is one of those things where then people think,
well,
Jocko always holds the line and there'll be no slack whatsoever.
Right?
No fucking slack.
Right.
That's how we roll.
And it's like,
hm,
actually there is slack and there's times where your gifts,
I can,
I mean,
I mean I always talk about,
and we always talk about how I was super strict about uniforms,
right?
Like hey,
we're going to wear uniforms,
no patches,
all this stuff.
Right.
We talk about that stuff all the time.
But when someone was in,
when we were,
when we were in our camp,
I didn't care what you wore,
if you weren't going to be interacting with the army or the Marine Corps,
I didn't care what you wore at all.
I mean I barely put on a shirt when we were all bad.
Right?
I mean I'd be sitting in the tactical operations that aren't I up flags,
flip flops and shorts and that's it.
And you had a brown t shirt and yeah,
sometimes an and so I didn't,
I'm not holding the line.
I'm not getting crazy cause guess what,
that's not important.
If I would have been running around policing up people's uniforms inside of our
camp,
which was just us,
man,
that would have wasted a bunch of leadership capital and frustrated everyone.
And then guess what,
when I tell them,
hey,
you got to learn how to program your radio.
That is,
that is explained with the same importance as,
hey,
you got a blouse,
your boots when you're inside our camp,
that's the wrong message to send.
So that's why this,
that's why I wrote this book because this is about balance.
You've got to be able to balance when to hold the line,
what's important,
what's worth holding the line for and what things do you go,
okay,
you know what you,
you know what life,
you guys want to do it that way.
That's cool.
Go do it.
And that's what you need to learn.
That balance,
that balance is hard.
It's hard to do.
I think that again,
I think the awareness of it,
I think the awareness of it and
I don't really know when I recognize the awareness of it.
I mean I know like when,
um,
when Flynn Flynn puts up the slides of like the Jocko brief from back in the
day,
I talked about the dichotomy of leadership back then.
I'm surprised I even knew what dichotomy meant,
but they looked it up right before the break.
I probably looked at it right before the briefing and said,
what am I talking about?
But it's one of those things,
I recognized it,
I saw it and I could definitely see it.
But now and just the more we work with companies,
even when I was in the teams,
the more I was working with a seal platoon.
You'd see when a guy was like,
here's a good example though.
You know when a guy talks too much,
when you have a leader that just talks all the time,
just doesn't stop.
He's always has something else.
He,
he won't let anyone else get the last word.
It's always that guys,
that people stop listening to him because he's talking all the time and it's
like,
hey I got a good idea.
Well why don't you be quiet for a little while?
And I hated to have to tell that to somebody cause they get super self
conscious.
But you know,
I usually phrase it a different way.
Like,
Hey,
you should,
you should let your guys run a little bit.
You know,
let them,
let them get the last word in,
let,
it's going to give them more ownership of what you're doing.
If,
if when they get done San and that's how we're going to do it tonight.
And then this guy chimes in and you know what?
When we do it that way and you're like,
just,
you don't need to say it again.
He's like,
you don't need to double tap guys would say this debriefing,
I'm going to double tap that.
That's already been tapped.
Don't double tap it.
We're going to triple tap this thing.
We used to have a symbol.
If you can't see this,
if you're listening,
we'd put our two,
whatever,
two peace signs and and touch your thumbs together and it's like four legs
sticking up in the air.
That's a dead horse.
That's the symbol for dead horse,
Bro.
You don't need to say this again.
It's a dead horse.
Quit beating it to death with what is double double tap.
Double Tap.
When you shoot a target,
you should at once.
And then what you normally do is you shoot it twice,
boom,
boom.
And so it's called a double tap.
It's like go fast,
fast mobile,
mobile.
So if I was debriefing you and,
and I was like Echo,
you know,
you need to keep your uh,
shop groups a little bit tighter on the next run.
Cool.
You got it.
Well the double tap on that,
you know,
you really need to work on the shot.
Yeah,
I'm saying the same thing.
Kind of like I second that notion kind of thing.
It is.
But if you said that,
if you said I second that you could leave it there,
but if you said I second that because you really need to tighten up your groups
because the groups were a little bit dispersed around the target area and that's
going to be bad.
We all know it's bad,
bro.
We all think,
think office space,
TPS report 100% clear enough and now all that being said,
so it's cool.
I think again,
having the combat stories let some of these things done and that's a good
example right there.
You're talking first person,
what you're actually thinking,
which I think is powerful,
but it's good also to to outline the principles and the,
and that's where we did.
So here's one of the principles we outlined,
and this is an important one because man,
we got,
cause we talk about being aggressive.
As a matter of fact,
we have tee shirts that say default aggressive,
right?
Like we're not playing around with being aggressive.
And what does that mean?
That means that we get some people in the,
in the military and in the civilian sector that we say d default mode
aggressive.
They go default mode aggressive and they don't know when to stop.
They get reckless,
they get careless,
they go too hard.
And so going back to the book here,
problems aren't going to solve themselves.
A leader must get aggressive and take action to solve the problems and implement
a solution.
Being too passive and waiting for a solution to appear often enables the problem
to escalate and get out of control.
The enemy isn't going to back off.
The leader must get aggressive and put the enemy in check.
The good deal isn't going to deliver itself to accompany.
The leader has to go out and make a good deal happen.
Changes and new methodologies in a team are going to implement themselves.
Leaders need to aggressively implement them.
An aggressive mindset should be the default setting of any leader.
Default aggressive.
This means that the best leaders,
the best teams don't wait to act.
Instead understanding the strategic vision or commander's intent,
they aggressively execute to overcome obstacles.
Capitalize on immediate opportunities,
accomplish the mission and when rather than passively waiting to be told what to
do,
default aggressive leaders proactively seek out ways to further the strategic
mission.
They understand the commander's intent and where they have authority to do so.
The execute for decisions that are beyond their pay grade or above their
authority.
Default aggressive leaders still make a recommendation up the chain of command
to solve problems and execute key tasks to achieve strategic victory in seal
platoons and task units.
We expect this from leaders at every level right down to the frontline trooper
in charge of just himself and his small piece of the mission.
But this mentality is crucial to any leader in any team or organization.
It is just as critical to success in business as on the battlefield.
Aggressive means proactive,
but it doesn't mean that leaders can get angry,
lose their temper or be aggressive toward their people.
A leader must always deal professionally with subordinates on the team.
Peers,
leaders up the chain of command customers or clients and personnel and
supporting roles outside the immediate team.
Speaking angrily to others is ineffective.
Losing your temper is a sign of weakness.
The aggression that wins on the battlefield in business or in life is directed
not towards people,
but towards solving problems,
achieving goals,
and accomplishing the mission.
It is also critical to balance aggression with careful thought and analysis to
make sure that risks have been assessed and mitigated.
The dichotomy with the default aggressive mindset is that sometimes hesitation
allows a leader to further understand the situation so that he or she can react
properly to it rather than immediately respond to enemy fire.
Sometimes the prudent decision is to wait and see how it develops.
Is it a simple reconnaissance by fire?
Is it a faint by the enemy meant to distract from the real attack is the enemy
simply trying to lure you into a confined area where they have a superior force
waiting to ambush.
A careful moment of consideration might reveal the enemy's intentions to be
overly aggressive without critical thinking is to be reckless.
That can lead the team into a disaster and put the greater mission in peril to
disregard prudent council when someone with experience urges caution to dismiss
significant threats or to fail to plan for likely contingencies is foolhardy.
It is bad leadership.
Uh,
chief contributing factor to recklessness comes from what military historians
have long referred to as the disease of victory.
This disease takes place when a few battlefield success is produce an
overconfidence in a team's own tactical prowess while underestimating the
capabilities of its enemy or competitor.
This is a problem not just for combat leaders,
but for leaders and teams anywhere in any arena throughout the business world
and the civilian sector.
It is a leader's duty to fight against this disease so that the team,
despite its success,
never gets complacent.
The risk in any action must be carefully weighed against the potential rewards
of mission success.
And of course to counter that thought,
the cost of inaction must be weighed as well as aggressive as leaders.
Must be leaders must be cautious that they are not running to their deaths
simply because it is their instinct to take action.
The dichotomy between aggression and caution must be balanced,
so be aggressive but never reckless.
So there's a principle principle laid out and then of course it's followed up
with a business example of which there are manifold of of businesses where the
business gets too aggressive,
they start getting properties to put more stores into and they build up all this
rent that they got to pay every month.
And next thing you know they have a down month and they got real estate bills to
pay or they start hiring a ton of people because they get a super aggressive and
that's,
you know,
kind of where this story leads to us.
We're bringing a gun to bring in all these people because we think this future
success is coming in.
The next thing you know,
you're overhead is so huge because you got overly aggressive.
You end up with problems that,
that is hard to get so hard cause it that is absolutely in my nature is to,
and I think in to,
and so many people that resonate with extreme molar shit that come to the
monsters that,
I mean we,
we've got default aggressive leaders that want to go dominate the universe and
you've got to really,
you've got to really take a step back and detach it.
Think,
okay,
what am I not thinking about?
What am I not seeing?
How might planning for those contingencies we just talked about,
you know,
situation day w you know,
with,
with a,
a client where,
uh,
you know,
they,
when things are going really well,
that's when you gotta be looking at,
okay,
what,
what's,
what's about to go wrong
that I haven't seen yet?
You know,
what am I not playing it for?
So it is very,
very difficult to balance as a leader.
Uh,
but you absolutely have to balance that.
You have to be aggressive,
you have to maneuver.
You know,
so many people get,
you know,
the,
the paralysis to analysis people talk about,
uh,
don't want to make it make a decision until you know the solution is right there
and it's 100% guarantee.
Nothing is ever 100% guaranteed by the time that's,
you know,
that's even close to being that,
the,
your competition's already maneuvered on the battlefield.
You're going to get wiped out,
killed,
you know,
in the business world,
you're going to get you,
you're going to get crushed by your competition and,
and so and yet being aggressive and also being prudent so that you're not
falling into the traps,
not run into your desk,
not sending your team up for total disaster.
It's the only,
the only answer to this,
the only answer to this is you have to be balanced.
That's the only answer because if you
go too far in one direction together,
if you get super aggressive and you take too much risk and you'll get wiped out,
if you don't do anything and you sit there,
you're going to get wiped out.
You have to,
you have to balance these two all the time.
And Yeah,
you're right.
This is something that,
it's something that we see all the time and I saw it,
you know,
train in seal platoons,
you get the guy that's super hyper aggressive and every time there's something
going on there,
a lets you send a fire team over there and okay you send,
you send a fire team over there and then that fire team gets whacked,
will send another five team over there.
Okay.
Then that fire team gets back,
we'll send it another fighting.
Next thing you're gonna have a platoon left.
Okay.
So that was good.
You got everyone killed cause you were hyper aggressive.
The other end of the spectrum is what we're not sure where the fire's coming
from.
So we're going to sit here and wait.
Okay,
well while you're not shooting at the enemy,
the enemy is maneuvering and they are getting high ground and they are getting a
superior position.
And this is the exact same thing in the business world where,
I mean the,
the example of like,
hey we got to grow.
And so the aggressive leader of the overly aggressive,
the hyper aggressive leader will grow too fast and all of a sudden has overhead
that's too much and can't afford to go on.
But at the same time you get a,
you get a company that's not,
that's not aggressive enough,
and they should be entering another,
another line of operation they should be putting,
they should be entering another market.
You know,
we were talking about this morning while we were working out blockbuster,
blockbuster,
and blackberry,
right?
Blockbuster and blackberry.
Who would have thought that blockbuster,
which was there was a blockbuster on every street corner and there was a block
blackberry and everyone's pocket and they owned something like 80 something
percent of the market share how they're done.
Now are you telling me that someone that was default aggressive would've said,
you know what?
We need to figure out how to,
you know what,
these,
these movies might be able to come on the Internet.
In fact,
there's streaming video.
Let's get into that market.
And of course they would have had the capitol,
they would have had the infrastructure,
they would have had the people and,
and they could have,
they would have being able to make that happen.
They had relationships with,
with,
with the,
um,
with the big Hollywood studios,
right?
They were getting sent those movies,
they'd relationship,
they could have done that,
but they were sitting there going,
we were,
you're going to come rent these videos for four 99.
You got to get that VHS tape up in here.
Right?
That's the way it's got to be.
And same thing with blackberry.
They're thinking,
well,
no one's going to leave us because we got the little thing with the keyboard on
it and we're set.
And,
and meanwhile they're,
they're both done,
done.
Lack of aggressive,
lack of foresight,
lack of planning.
And,
and for me,
it's really just a lack of being aggressive,
aggressively looking around.
Now we could go the other way and we could look at,
look at companies that put so much capital out there that they run out of money
and they go,
they go down to,
so what do you have to do?
You have to balance,
you have to balance.
That's what you have to do.
Uh,
you know,
one more thing.
I think we do one more thing from this,
from this book,
um,
just you and it's a short,
short little piece we were talking about earlier and it kind of relates to what
there,
I think the reason we were talking about,
cause it was kind of related in the disease of victory.
Um,
you had that little chunk.
Again,
we do the,
we do the applications of business so people can see really directly how these
principles in combat and a principal correlates to the civilian sector.
But you had a good one,
just a couple paragraphs on a 84 about your kind of a stereotypical fired up
extreme ownership poss that's going to come in there and make stuff happen.
I thought this was a good one.
Go.
I've read a lot about Patton,
the executive vice president said with pride,
referring to General George s patent jr the famous us army general whose
exploits in World War II were legendary.
I love that you reference patent in your presentation.
I want exactly the kind of discipline organization around here that patent
expected.
We need people who carry out orders,
not questioned them.
I could tell right away that the executive vice president had no previous
military experience.
He clearly misunderstood how effective leaders in the military led their teams.
It was not through rigid authoritarianism do this because I said so are you will
be punished.
Sure.
There were those in the military who tried to lead like that,
but it was never effect active.
So there you go.
And I know you and I both and the rest of the team has dealt with guys that
they,
they have that vision of this military leadership and usually it's guys that
weren't in the military.
And you know,
I like to draw a line and maybe I'm right,
maybe I'm wrong about this.
I think,
well,
and,
and from what I know from military history,
when you go back to conscripts,
when you,
when you get to the conscripts,
those guys are beaten until they are doing what the,
you know,
what they're told to him.
And we've,
we've covered some great examples of that on this podcast situations where it's
like,
Oh,
you know what?
You know how we're going to lead,
we're going to lead through tyranny and we're going to lead through punishment
and want to lead through rigid discipline,
rigid discipline,
which obviously everyone knows I'm a fan of discipline.
But when you're leading guys,
and the reason that they're following your orders is because they fear being
beaten or fear being shot.
They shot by you,
you know,
punished by you.
Uh,
if that's why they're,
again,
it's the same situation where if that's why they're doing it,
you're never going to get the true optimal work and effort out of those people
ever.
And even from,
from history,
I mean,
if you read Alexander the Grade Right,
or,
or Julius Caesar who is a great example,
they had conscripts but,
uh,
his men loved him and admired him and held him and tremendous,
regardless,
he,
he rewarded them,
he gave them credit.
He,
he explained why and then he,
he was,
he was a guy who was always put himself at the forefront,
uh,
of a,
of where the fighting was and uh,
you know,
much more so than just a political leader,
like many of the Roman,
uh,
the role of the leader.
So just a phenomenal leader on the battlefield.
And so even even then you hear the most effective leaders are always going to
be,
they're always going to try to get the team on board with a mission,
help them understand why they're doing it,
put it,
put a greater purpose in their mind.
And I think so often,
as you said before,
you know,
leader,
a leader like that this was,
this was a aggressive leader,
great,
great person who wanted to dominate the universe and,
and make things happen,
love extreme ownership.
And yet is,
is struggling to see that because they think they're leading.
Like you would leave,
they look at,
they look at a picture of Jocko like this is what Jocko would do and just crush
everyone and tell them to do it.
Cause I sat as you've explained it,
it doesn't work.
It doesn't work that way.
It's never effective.
And that's why,
uh,
that's why I'm,
and I'm proud of this,
but,
and I think it can be so useful to leaders to see you can't do that.
If you do that.
You're not ever going to be as successful as you could be if you actually,
uh,
get the team on board,
explain why to them and,
and,
and tie that to the bigger purpose of,
of what you're trying to accomplish.
Yeah.
I think that's all true.
I think the book will be helpful to people.
Um,
so yeah,
dichotomy of leadership.
It's coming out September 25th.
If you want to,
if you want to get some,
you can get some of that.
We got some Q and a,
we've got some questions to discuss here.
I'll just jump right into it.
Number one.
What are speaking of that,
this is,
this is phone together quite nicely.
Question number one,
what are things to look for when you're debating whether to raise your voice or
yell due to those under you being lazy or unmotivated.
Y'All talk a lot about the importance of self control and not just losing it,
but would you say there's a time and place for raising the intensity while still
being respectful towards your guys?
So there you go.
Yelling and screaming,
get some.
Sometimes you got to just drop the hammer
Jocko a yelled and at us all the time.
Like I've,
I've,
I've talked about on this,
you know,
I think on the podcast we started talking about all the time and then the number
of times at Jocko screamed and yelled at me zero,
zero times in all the years that we worked together.
And,
and I know I gave him at least dozens,
maybe hundreds of opportunities to want to probably done that.
Uh,
and he didn't do that because he realized that it wasn't effective.
So,
uh,
now listen,
there,
there is,
uh,
there is a time where,
you know,
if there's a major safety issue going on and you're trying to get people's
attention and you want people to cease fire,
uh,
are you need a rally the truth where you got to raise your voice and get
people's attention.
Uh,
and I think that's,
you can't be afraid to do that as a leader.
Certainly Times where I'd say,
Hey,
life could get those Bobby's lined up for there and stuff like that.
I mean,
for sure.
That's,
is that yelling?
Well,
yeah,
I'm definitely raising my voice and using a loud voice,
but I'm not doing it.
Whatever with anger,
it's just,
hey,
you got to hear me.
And so,
and also,
you know,
there's times where you've got to,
you've got to pick up the intensity and your voice so that people realize
there's something important happening,
right?
There's just enough now you don't want to yell and scream and get all crazy.
But to be like,
Hey,
I need vehicles here now.
Like that is different than,
hey,
can you get the vehicles over here?
Now,
those are two different things and you,
I would react differently if I heard those two voices.
So yes,
now to go vehicles over here now,
no one that we're creating a whole panic situation.
But that's a great point too,
right?
And it's,
it's the kind of,
you know,
never cry Wolf,
story.
So when,
when you're,
if you're yelling all the time,
how do you do vehicles over here right now when there's nothing at stake and
it's no big deal and it's just a routine movement,
you know,
then when you do that and you really need it,
then no one's paying attention.
They think,
oh,
it's just Lafe yelling again into the radio.
So,
so I think that's another reason why I actually have seen Jocko raise his voice
on one occasion.
And,
uh,
when there was a,
a serious issue that needed to be addressed and you needed to get the person's
attention to show just how serious of a situation it was.
And it got everybody's attention.
It got everybody's attention right away,
cause you never did that.
And when you did do it,
it was like,
oh man.
Yeah,
I was always tell that to leaders like being on the radio and this it goes from
being in a meeting,
right?
If you go to a meeting,
if you're in charge of a meeting and you talk the whole time and then you have
something important to say at the end,
well that's great,
but it's not as impactful as when you say very few things during the meeting and
then at the end you say,
hey guys,
listen up.
Here's what's going on with us and everyone,
everyone pays attention.
So I've said this before,
the less you talk,
the more people listen.
And that goes true here.
The more you yell,
the less people listen and it takes away the opportunity.
If you ever do have to yell,
it's going to have zero impact.
So my blanket statement is you should hardly ever have to raise your voice and
it should just barely ever happen.
Next question.
It's a long one.
Can you explain
more how you manage to working with the local Iraqi troops?
General Mattis who I hold in the highest esteem esteem said something to the
effect that if you are doing anything that negatively impacts relations with
allied forces,
you are of more use to the enemy than you are to your team.
This makes it quite obvious that he believes that full cooperation with allied
forces is key to attaining victory.
It is a well established fact that most of the Iraqi forces were incompetent to
the point of posing a danger to US troops.
So what steps did you take to ensure success when working with them?
Well,
obviously relations with your allies are critical,
but it's covered move,
right?
You've got to work together as a team and,
and if you've got,
if you're working against each other,
that's absolutely catastrophic.
Uh,
I think for us with Iraqi troops,
you know,
again,
we,
we talked about how,
uh,
that was liberating,
right?
For,
for,
you know,
the,
the big pushback was always like this.
We want to do just seal unilateral operations.
We call it just seals are just Americans.
Uh,
you know,
just like NATO ally forces and,
um,
and not work with,
with the Iraqi troops.
And you know,
when you said that right away at [inaudible],
listen,
don't even put up a concept of operations,
but if a con ops we call it,
which is the approval for the plan that doesn't have Iraqi troops on it.
Okay.
Got It.
We're going to have to figure out a way to make that happen.
So that was the line was drawn.
We knew we had to do that and we knew it was also important.
I mean,
cause you explained that,
we talked about it,
we,
we thought through that.
Um,
but obviously we had to take some steps to mitigate that.
So I think there were,
uh,
there were,
again,
this is the dichotomy.
It's,
you gotta be balanced.
There were,
I saw units who thought,
um,
and we gave some examples,
even extreme ownership,
certainly.
Um,
and we talk about regularly about where you,
you see a unit that would take two or four Americans and a bunch of Iraqis and
try to go into a really bad area.
I'm like,
man,
you're the,
you're not going to be able to cancel most Iraqis in the middle of a gunfight
when they're overwhelmed.
You better have enough Americans here to have your back.
So,
so they were asking too much of,
of the Iraqis.
And then there are other units that didn't want to do,
you know,
didn't want to have any Iraqis.
Willem didn't want have any relationships with them.
And I had some stern talking to,
you know,
stop talking soon.
So my guys who wouldn't,
we're weren't treating Iraqi soldiers with respect.
I threatened one of my guys,
he was gonna have to go sleep in the Iraqi soldiers barracks.
If he did go shake their hand.
Individual,
who's a great guy,
I think that was the last threat you had to maybe to make him to think I was
serious.
The person was like,
I'm totally serious.
They're taking this.
So,
and you'll,
what?
Props,
props.
The SF guys,
Mitt teams that go out there and they do,
they live,
they eat a,
you know,
even even having Dakota Meyer on here,
he did two meals a day out of three with,
with his Afghan soldiers.
Uh,
that's,
that's awesome.
And you know,
what I liked about this question was the way that,
that it relates to to the civilian sector.
Because you know what?
I talk about a lot.
I,
a lot of times I talk about how my relationship with my boss,
regardless of who my boss was,
regardless of my boss was great or my boss was horrible.
My relationship was always the same.
I was going to have this great,
I was going to build a relationship where they trusted me,
they gave me what I needed to do my job,
and then they let me do my job.
That's the relationship I always had with all my bosses.
Right?
But I,
I,
that same methodology and concept can absolutely be applied to other
organizations that you're supposed to work with.
So whether it's the army,
whether it's the marine corps,
whether it's the Iraqi soldiers,
whether it's the mps,
whether it's the I,
the,
uh,
the Intel people who that Intel organization that you're working with,
no matter what the organization,
you can build a relationship.
Again,
might you love that organization?
No,
you might not.
And where I see this all the time,
it will,
we see it all the time now is with businesses.
Cause guess what?
There's no business that standalone the question,
it's safe.
There's very few that are completely vertically integrated businesses.
I mean like an origin,
right?
We don't,
we were pretty vertically integrated.
But guess what?
We don't grow the cotton.
Like we don't do that.
We don't grow cotton.
But guess what?
We have a good relationship with the people that grow cotton.
We have a good relationship with the people at stain,
the conduct or sorry,
die the cotton.
So we build those relationships with those other people.
Now I work with businesses where there's a supplier that they don't like.
So guess what?
They'd form a hostile relationship with this whole company.
A whole company.
What good does that do them?
It doesn't do him any good at all.
What it means is they have no personal relationships.
They formed that antagonistic relationship with a whole nother organization and
it's almost impossible to overcome.
So now this is something where if you don't explain that culture throughout your
team,
they're going to treat that other team horribly.
And so if you're waiting on supplies,
if you're on a construction site and you're waiting for materials to be
delivered and you don't have a good relationship with the people that deliver
the drywall,
and now the drywall is running late for whatever reason,
and you call you,
you fly off the handle or whatever,
you're,
you're not going to get that dry wall any earlier.
It's not happening.
Have you ever,
you know when I call customer service,
right?
Customer survey.
I learned this when I was working for them for the animal working from the
admiral's aid,
I'd call up,
we traveled a lot and I'd have to call up whatever Delta or American,
whoever,
and I'd be trying to get whatever seats on an aircraft or something or a flight
that was full,
whatever,
get him an upgrade,
whatever.
And you know,
I'd say,
hey,
how you doing?
That's what always,
I always start off with the,
with the,
cause they're gone.
American airline,
how can I help you?
And they're mad,
right?
They're just mad to start with how the gate,
their mat,
whatever you know,
airline,
whatever,
car rental service,
whatever restaurant we like.
People are just mad.
They don't care.
They're mad,
they don't know who you are.
Well they actually,
they've just talked to probably,
you know,
the last 25 people who have screamed and yelled and screamed and yelled at him
and it's awful.
So you know,
you,
you call them and say,
hey,
how's it going?
And you know,
I always,
I had little head,
little Mike wrote jokes that I would make with the airlines that I used it with
all of them all the time.
One of them was,
I'd say,
they'd say,
well,
do you need to do you need to sit next to your boss?
And I'd say,
you know what,
I'd honestly appreciate it if you put me as far away from it.
And they'd laugh and then they try and hook me up.
Even though my boss was a great guy and I'd sit with him all day.
But it was a funny thing and it,
it,
it humanized me with them.
They thought I was rich,
some poor,
sorry bastard that had to travel with his boss and then they were trying to take
care of me.
It was like awesome.
So I would get the hookups.
I remember one time I went up and I had a conversation on the phone with someone
and then of course this is different because it was live,
but I had a conversation,
they're like,
no,
it can't get you on that flight.
And then I went up to the counter and I was like,
hey,
how you doing?
I'm trying to get me in my boss on this flight and we're trying to get there.
And he's like,
there's cross,
like,
you know,
do you need to go to?
I'm like,
well look,
if we don't get there,
here's the deal.
If you can just get my boss on,
that's great.
If,
if neither one of us get get on this flight,
it's been nice knowing you because I'm screwed.
And she just started laughing and again humanized it.
And then it's like all of a sudden she's like,
oh,
guess what we can,
we're going to pump some of these or whatever and she's making room and we're on
the flight.
So don't develop this antagonistic relationship with another organization with
Iraqi soldiers.
Like,
is it great working with Iraqi soldiers?
No,
it's socks.
It's hard.
But guess what?
That's what we have to do.
And I'll tell you something else strategically,
the Iraqi soldiers that are descendants of the guys that we train to me,
maybe not,
I'm saying training or,
or training descendants,
right?
The guys that we trained,
trained guys who just went and fought back and got Ramadi back from Isis and
gotten miserable back from Isis.
Those are the guys that went in there and did the bulk of it.
Did they get supported by Americans?
Yes.
Did Americans do a kickass job of doing massive fire support?
Yes,
but the guys that were moving from street to street,
those were majority Iraqi soldiers.
Did they have a special ops guys with them?
Yes,
but it was a majority of the people that were moving through the streets were
Iraqi soldiers and there's no way possible that wouldn't have happened if
American coalition forces over the last,
whatever it was,
10 years,
12 years,
would have taken those guys and made them work and done the,
the type of partner missions that we did with them.
So it was,
and when I say again,
when I say we,
I'm not talking about us,
the seal teams,
I'm talking about everyone.
Everyone made this concerted effort.
And it ended up being a great call because when those guys went out to,
to finally have to fight to take these cities back,
they were able to do it,
not totally by themselves,
but they were able to do it.
They did it.
And that's a vast improvement.
If we would've sent,
if we would've sent the Iraqi troops as they were when we were in Ramadi into
Missoula,
they would've gotten decimated.
So it's a credit to the u s military.
It's a credit to the Iraqi military that they have now gotten up to speed where
they can push forward.
And it's a credit to the u s military and other coalition forces that work with
them to get them up to speed.
And what that all boils back to is forming relationships with the people that
you are dependent on.
Not just the people,
but the organizations.
That's all I'm saying.
We learned the lesson.
It's,
it's,
let's do,
uh,
let's use them for their strengths.
And,
and that's what we learned at Ramadi.
Uh,
we,
we put them in situations where they could succeed.
Uh,
we took enough Americans where we could actually succeed and,
and,
and help them succeed.
And,
uh,
and of course we put some,
you know,
some efforts to mitigate risks to with,
with,
uh,
all,
we always had armed guys.
He always had guys looking around.
We always present it a,
you know,
a hard target.
If one of those guys decided that they wanted to,
you know,
start batting for the other team and uh,
we were in a position to,
to handle those problems and we never had an issue as a result.
But that's,
that's what you have to do is it's all about building coalitions and,
and,
and using people's strengths and complimenting those strengths and working
together as a team.
It's,
it's government.
If you don't do that,
you're going to,
you're going to fail.
Yeah.
And to all you people at the airlines.
Thank you.
Thank you for taking care of me over the years.
Appreciate it.
Next question,
Jocko.
Leif and echo,
your opinion has been solicited on this leadership question right here.
So we'll see how that works out.
A good leader ensures his team understands what their goals are and why there
are performing tasks.
But how do you balance doing this with not being the leader that talks so much
that the team stops listening?
We did.
We just covered this for a long period of time.
Pretty much it didn't we,
I guess we can leave it at this echo.
Do you agree with what we said earlier or do you have a different opinion about
talking too much and mind you,
you've said a lot today,
so don't be,
don't get,
don't get crazy over here or we'll stop listening.
The guy who talks too much,
no less is more a hundred percent go.
I agree.
There you go.
I like it.
I will say it.
Musters a win.
Echos echo his words to the audience.
Um,
he always gives an epic speech.
W have have solicited probably the greatest applause of everyone out there.
Yeah.
Matt fee.
I guess to dig in this a little bit of how to balance that with being a leader
that talks too much.
I think you've got to pay attention to what the reactions are you getting from
people,
right?
You've got to pay attention to the reactions you're getting from people.
If the people are not totally,
uh,
actively listening to you,
right?
If they're not actively listening to you,
if they're taking notes,
if they're looking at their phone or what not taking notes,
but if they're looking at their phone or whatever,
then you're,
you're talking too much.
Keep it short,
keep it concise and people will listen to you more also that,
um,
when you say you got to pay attention to yourself,
that's like a deep one.
It's like you just said it really simply like,
hey,
just pay attention to yourself.
I mean,
you didn't say it like that,
but that's what it felt like.
That's the hardest part right there.
Because a lot of times like,
hey,
me and life are talking and lay starts looking at his phone.
I'm not thinking,
Hey,
I'm talking too much.
I'm saying what I'm saying.
It's not interesting enough.
So I need,
so I need to say some more cool stuff or I need to be more this or more of that
because I'm losing them kind of thing.
Like if I'm losing you,
the intuitive thought is not to completely disconnect and stop talking and
that's not the intuitive thought seems saying when you're in a situation,
Joe,
you got to pay attention to that kind of stuff on yourself.
Jocko does this all the time.
What do I do?
Like the buses,
phone out and start sorting emails,
whatever action.
You know what I got?
Okay,
cool.
I guess our conversations,
I do that to Dean and dean lister,
so dean,
Dean,
Jack Deans,
really important stuff we're talking about here.
He's like,
yeah,
no.
What Dean does though,
see if it makes him mad.
Right?
He's got the,
he's got the pet peeve.
So Dean will be telling us something.
And so you're doing it on purpose to get under your skin?
Uh,
no.
Sometimes he's saying some rambling stuff.
Right?
And I'm,
I've got stuff going on,
Dean,
come on.
I know you're listening to this bro.
But sometimes he'll be saying something to me and all of a sudden I'll like,
I'll like look around and,
and now I realize I'll just be watching people do you just because we're
normally on the mat with this happens.
So he's telling me something like looking me in the eyes and he's like,
you know,
when the ancient blah blah blah blah,
he'll be telling me about the Peloponnesian war or something or whatever.
And,
and as I'm listening to them,
I'll kind of look and like start looking at someone that's training or looking
at something and he'll,
he'll like attack me.
They went through a period where he would just attack me and like take me down
and just start,
you know,
going psycho on me.
So that got me tuned up there,
got me turned up where I try and give dean some more attention.
I like that.
I think that's a,
I think that's a good,
do you feel like,
like when he starts doing this,
none of the Bro,
I see what you're doing.
Well,
the thing is though,
that I think you're in the same boat lake where I know you kind of know now like
in everyday life with other people,
you might think,
I mean intuitively anyway,
like,
Oh,
I'm losing them or whatever.
But you can tell with him if he starts doing that stuff and you're like,
okay,
and he's either or,
yeah,
move on or something.
But it's only because,
you know,
listen,
if you can give me 35 more seconds,
we'll be on this.
You can move on and do whatever you need to.
I will say that's a bad characteristic that I have where I can do that.
Sometimes I'm done listening to you,
so wrap it up all the time.
All right,
next question for life.
This is the heavy one.
You know what?
All right.
Life in and out Burger or water burger.
Dude,
I do not want to go there man.
That is too much as like double rainbow,
too much,
much man.
This is,
uh,
I,
I gotta,
I gotta tell you,
look,
obviously I'm from Texas.
Water burgers are all over the place and water burgers are awesome.
You can't go wrong with water burger,
um,
in and out is,
uh,
is pretty tough to beat though.
It's a,
there's something special about the in,
and I used to have,
um,
you know,
over in Pacific Beach I had a storage unit over there and there's like,
my storage unit was like real,
those are good burgers.
The uh,
my storage unit was like kick the exhaust wreck right back up into the,
so,
so like the exhaust blasting in your face,
you know,
from like 25 yards,
30 yards away.
Yeah.
As I'm like,
they're in my storage unit,
unload surfboards or whatever and I was like double,
double.
We're getting some terrible.
So yeah,
in and outs are awesome.
I like,
it's,
it's tough to beat.
I'm a huge fan of that.
And I will say this though,
where's the meat man?
Come on those burgers.
You gotta put what?
A Burger.
They've got a lot more,
more patty to him.
Well,
apparently you're not ordering the triple,
triple,
quadruple,
quadruple
my,
my kids after they would cut weight for wrestling during wrestling season,
I spent more money in and out burger during wrestling season because after they
cut weight and then they wrestle all day and then you're going home and all they
want to do is go in and out burger and it helped broker in n out burger.
Yeah.
See it.
Cutting weight for me is the various,
I mean playing football and it's like,
man,
you want to be as big and fat as a class.
We can crush food.
Check.
All right.
Speaking of,
well I guess speaking of Combat Sports,
next question six.
This is a Jujitsu question.
Should instructors not teach white belts,
Aka Leif Babin,
David Burke and JP Denelle.
That's cold blooded.
It's a good deal team.
That is good deal.
Should instructors not teach white belts certain techniques or should,
why they shouldn't do them be explained,
but still expose the white belts to techniques.
So not the white belts recognize them.
So there's some techniques that you don't get taught very often as a white belt.
For instance,
a heel hook.
I believe that it is good to not teach people.
I teach white belts to do heal hooks because the,
for example,
heel hooks can be very dangerous.
The reason that they're dangerous because they don't hurt a lot before they
injure you.
And so white belts who are by nature completely insane and going crazy and going
nuts.
And so when they get ahold of something,
they just go as hard as they can.
And by the way,
they're usually going against the white belt.
That's the only reason they're getting anything on him because the ground gets
wiped off and another white belts going completely insane and he's not going to
tap.
And so what happens?
You get the triple,
triple Lindy,
right?
ACL,
MCL,
PCL tear game over.
This guy's never trained in Jujitsu again,
or this guy's not training Jiu Jitsu for two years or whatever.
So is it smart to not teach them?
Yes,
it is.
However,
dichotomy,
balance.
Should you just never show them what they are?
No,
you should.
You should explain to them,
hey,
this is what the move is.
This is,
this is why we don't teach him.
The other thing that,
this is why we don't teach them cause you can get hurt and when you get a little
bit more advanced and you learn to relax a little bit more,
we'll teach you some of these,
these techniques that are slightly more dangerous.
Dean always freaks out because you saying that a heal hook is more dangerous
than a,
than a camera.
I mean if you asked me what I wanted to have somebody just go berserk on a
camera on me or he'll look,
I'd probably pick the heel hook.
Right because then you,
you still have shoulder mobility whereas [inaudible] that's,
that's just if someone goes nuts on a computer and just rips your arm,
your shoulder apart,
what would you rather have the heel hook for?
Sure.
Yeah.
I'm thinking too,
look all day long.
So,
but for some reason it's kind of a rough choice there.
That is a rough choice.
That's not a choice you want to be making.
Cause either one of them is not good,
but I think you can do a better job of replacing the knee and getting them neve
squared away.
Then you can the shoulder,
there's no the shoulders tough.
But for some reason the Camaro's everyone you're learning Camaro day one,
day three,
you're learning cmera and you could definitely trash someone's shoulder,
but it hurts.
It does hurt then that's beneficial.
Chill is going to have way more flexibility of being your,
literally your knee twisting the joint that you can't be like,
hey,
I wouldn't feel it unless you get some because doing,
doing today.
So you got guys who can do shoulder,
you know,
there's varying levels of shoulder flexibility.
And then that also goes for the like the pain tolerance as well.
It needs less wait lists from,
from a wide belt perspective.
There's so much to learn.
And the more I try,
the more I realize how little I actually know and how much more there is that,
I mean why I would,
I would,
I'd rather focus on,
you know,
uh,
on the more,
the more foundational aspects of the game.
And,
and until I can get those a little bit better,
I think that makes a lot of sense to me.
I think you might be the bull white belt right now if the world,
so then in the navy,
the ensign,
which is the lowest ranking and sin add a ship or a seal team,
he gets called the bull ensign,
which means he's been the junior guy for the longest amount of time.
And you've been trading for quite some while you start sharing with me in 2005,
right?
Yep.
Then your train before me with Fabio,
I turned a few tubs.
Oh,
okay.
So you've been training since oh three Oh four.
That's been a long time.
Most of that,
14 years.
Most of that 14 years.
Uh,
I would say I've been seriously training for,
probably probably like back at it,
you know,
pretty consistently
in a mobile times a week for a year and a half.
Okay.
Years.
You're in a zone,
you're in the zone.
You'd be getting up Blue Bouchee at some point.
Todd white down in Texas.
I'm going to crack it out.
Possibly.
I don't know.
Maybe you're not ready though.
I'll maybe Todd white.
I'm definitely not ready.
He's looking at you going,
no,
you got nothing.
You got nothing.
Check.
So yeah,
that's,
I think the deal.
Same thing with same thing.
Uh,
the other problem with teaching a person,
for instance,
heel hooks is then they think that that's the solution to the guard and it's not
the solution to the guard.
It's a solution to the guard.
It's one possible,
one,
one small possible on a solution.
There's many,
many more.
And there's others,
as you said,
life that are more fundamental.
So it's,
that's my,
that's my answer.
Yeah.
That thing.
How do you say the,
like let them know what it is.
Yeah.
And when you consider an actual typical white belt class,
the hill probably not going to be introduced in any significant capacity at all.
Like,
no one's going to choose to spend time in a whiter white belt class to teach a
heel hook typically is nothing happening.
But like the control thing,
right?
Like,
you know,
you get an even a,
a good blue belt who's been in for a long time per up purple belt and up.
They're going to know the control and the heel hook.
Like if I,
you know,
a purple belt does,
he'll look on you.
The risk of you getting injured,
unless you don't tap or something like that is pretty low.
It's gonna be pretty low because they know that control of just their whole body
and you know you should tap.
Exactly right.
Yes.
So the white belt,
they don't even have control.
Very important.
They don't have control or they have a lot less control in everything.
By the way,
even the strong possibility,
they have zero,
very strong.
But that's with everything.
Like even on a defending I take down or defendant,
it's like,
so out of Chi as a blue belt,
I heal hooked.
A friend of mine and I heard him and,
and I didn't,
it wasn't even,
he was,
he was a no nothing right.
And we're going.
And I just started learning heel hooks and I put a heel hook on them and we were
overseas and I put a heel hook on him and he wasn't tapping.
And I was kind of like,
oh,
that's weird.
You know,
why isn't it happening?
So I went a little bit harder and then all of a sudden there was a little pop
and I let go.
And I was like,
and yeah,
but you know,
he was a seal.
And so he was like,
all this isn't going to work on me.
It doesn't hurt.
And all of a sudden I wasn't going nuts because like I said,
I was a blue belt.
I was in pretty good control.
But even I didn't realize at that time,
oh,
this will injure him before it will cause pain,
which is a bad thing to have to have.
So yeah,
these kids,
I mean he's got his,
if there,
no one has control over anything by the way,
any,
any of their moves.
And they're doing heel hooks as a normal thing.
Like,
Oh yeah,
we did,
we got taught this and stuff.
And it's effective.
You know,
like a lot of submissions and he'll hook then a lot of foot locks or one of
those ones where you have to gain
the position to,
to go for that submission.
You have to work a lot less than like an arm bar where you have to actually pass
someone's guard and you know,
getting even site control but a lot of time to get to them,
you know,
you've got to work more to get into the position with your hooks.
Not,
not so much like that.
So if you know,
throw it at him.
Yeah.
You can just throw it out there and you throw in the lack of control.
Yeah man.
See in increase the chance for injury for sure.
All right,
next question.
I am a 66 year old police chief and crossfit athlete.
Is your muster doable for me?
Absolutely.
Yeah,
you,
there'll be,
there'll be plenty of people,
uh,
who are in your age group and um,
there's no question that a,
you should come and join us from Oster get after it.
If you're your police chief,
your crossfit athlete,
you can more,
more than get after it with the four 45 club workouts are,
are uh,
voluntary.
Uh,
we usually have,
I mean,
we probably have what,
you know,
80,
85% participation.
I mean,
it's massive.
Uh,
but they're,
they're designed so that really anybody can do it.
We have people with top level athletes down to,
you know,
folks who look like the,
probably hadn't been in the gym a whole lot.
[inaudible] start again.
So I remember one guy that was,
I'm heading in for double knee surgery in a week and so I'm just,
and he was an older guy,
you know,
that it had been out of the gym for a bit and he was out there,
like you said,
the,
the workouts are scalable to the individual that's participating in the,
in the event.
And so we had all,
every level you can come to the monster in any,
literally in any physical condition,
you can come to the muster and you can,
you can get after it with us.
Next question.
I find meetings of greater than or equal to eight people,
far less productive than smaller groups.
Even with Straw,
with a structured action oriented agenda.
Is there a maximum amount of people you'd involve in a strategic or tactical
planning group?
Okay.
I don't think,
I don't think there is a maximum amount.
I think it just has to be controlled.
And you gotta have,
you gotta have some decentralized command where people understand if there's
just a bunch of people at a meeting and everyone's kind of speaking in,
in turn,
um,
and talking over each other,
you're not gonna get anything done.
So you've got to have,
there's got to be one leader who's running that.
There's gotta be some,
some,
you know,
some other,
uh,
subordinate leaders that,
and,
and one person's got to drive that meeting and make sure that when someone
starts going down a rabbit hole,
okay,
you guys have a sidebar conversation afterward.
Let's keep this meeting focused and less.
And ultimately the decision maker who can focus the team on a single course of
action,
get her by behind them.
I agree.
And there's certainly times where you can bring too many people in to try and
figure something out.
I mean,
that can certainly happen and we have the good idea fairies that keep coming
around with their good ideas and [inaudible] well,
what if we did it?
I wonder if we did that.
There's also an interesting dynamic that you pointed out that ties into a
question that we had earlier or something that we were talking about earlier,
which is,
okay,
so let's say we have a meeting and there's 15 people in that meeting.
If the leader of that meeting,
then we'll say steps down into the position of being the,
the director of the meeting itself.
Guess what he's doing the whole time he's talking,
he's pulling things he's getting and what he's doing while he's doing that,
as he's getting in the weeds of what's going on.
So as he's getting in the weeds of what's going on,
he's losing this strategic vision.
And so if there's 20 people in a meeting and you as the leader are going,
okay,
what do you think?
What do you think?
What do you thinking?
Hey,
no,
let's get it refocused.
When you're doing all that traffic copping,
you're actually losing your strategic altitude.
You're not going to be able to see and make a good clear decision.
So if there's 30 40 50 people in a meeting,
and you as the leader get down in the weeds and get down in the trenches and you
start throwing down with everyone,
well,
it's not going to take very long.
Well you're just,
you're just one of the troops and you don't see anything.
Whereas if you let,
let one of the other leaders let one of the subordinate leaders let them step
up,
let them start to do their thing,
let them do the direction of meaning.
And you might even tell him,
hey,
run this meeting.
I would do that.
I'd be like,
Hey,
you run this meeting.
And then you let them get in there in the trenches and left them try and sort
out ideas and they,
their mind gets filled with a bunch of crap and meanwhile you're in the meeting,
you're just not running it.
So there's a big difference between running the meeting and overseeing the
meeting or being in the meeting or being the leading leader of a meeting.
So if we're going through a kill house or if we're going,
if we're going through a kill house,
that's a good example,
which is,
you know,
the,
with a building with a bunch of rooms in it,
if as the leader you don't say,
Hey,
I'm going to run this kill house.
I'm not gonna,
I'm not,
I'm not going to direct the movement for the kill house.
Cause then guess what you're doing,
you're directing the movement through the kill house.
What you want to do is take a step back and say,
hey you third,
fourth,
fifth and the chain of command.
You run this kill house,
you run the train and now that guy goes,
okay,
cool,
I got it.
And now while he's running the train,
doing the work,
you're stepped back at altitude,
you can see what's going on,
you can hear the frustration,
you can hear shots fired,
you know where people are moving,
then you become,
you are the real leader.
So same thing in a meeting.
If the dynamics of the meeting or you get more than 10 people,
15 people,
and what you're doing is you're down there directing traffic,
it's going to be really problematic for you.
If you have a meeting with 15 or 20 people and you tell someone else to direct
the meeting and run the meeting and you take a step up and you simply observe,
you're going to have a better time
feeling like the meeting is effective and you will get the benefit of hearing
all these different voices,
which is good,
which is good to hear all these different opinions and voices and be able to
pick through and sort through and that's going to give you more benefit than it.
You know what
I get?
There's too much going on in this meeting,
only giving me two people and we'll make the decisions.
Well,
there's some people,
number of number,
the six person,
that person had a good input,
right?
The 12th person might've had some good input.
So again,
is there balance?
Yes.
Are there certain decisions that you kind of need to take and really dive down
and with a small group?
Absolutely,
but is it good sometimes to let things air out and let someone run a meeting and
you listen and you learn kind of what the overall atmosphere atmospherics of the
situation are?
Absolutely.
That's my answer.
I think it's great,
but it helps people.
It helps people to listen to you as well.
Right?
I mean when if if you're the boss and you're just sitting back and you're not
saying anything and then all of a sudden you're like,
hey guys,
we're getting way off topic here.
This is what we need to do.
Here's the direction we need to go.
Got It.
Everyone's back on track.
Whereas if you're in the middle of it,
then yeah,
people are just automatically kind of doing their,
I'm sure we've said this before,
and I know we talked about earlier too,
but like when I would say something on the radio and tasking at bruiser,
when I would say like a legitimate thing,
Manny would happen if I got on and said everyone get to building 34 now,
people would go and I,
one of my favorite things to do,
one of my favorite conversations to have on the radio with,
with either you or stoner was like,
I remember you'd be like,
you'd say,
Hey Jocko,
we've got another mover where I want to take down building 34 and I'd come up
and go do it.
But that was all I'd ever set be like,
do it just like go because I'm not trying to talk.
Right.
I got these guys,
got their situations handled.
Hey,
he's going outside of,
it's something that we planned.
Hey Jack,
I want to build a move to building 34 and take that thing down.
Do it not,
well,
why do you want to do that?
You know why he wants to do it because he's got a good reason.
He's not asking me that because it's a fantasy that he thinks it's going to be
cool.
No,
there's a reason.
And he'll explain that to me later.
And if it was something where he's like,
I want to,
you know,
start doing jumping jacks out here,
then I might ask why,
because that doesn't make much sense to me.
But to say,
hey,
we're gonna take,
we're gonna hit building 34 as well.
What if we were doing burpees with de,
would that make more sense?
That makes it a little more sense,
a little more sense than jumping jacks.
That absolutely works.
It worked for us when you,
when you said some over the radio,
like got it.
We're good.
Like it is the decision made.
Everyone's on board and uh,
I think it's,
it's something that you've got to,
you've got to focus on what,
like when a leader talks,
it should matter and,
and I think you can be,
you gotta be really careful about that.
And I've certainly been a chief violator that of like going off to dip too many
different directions,
but um,
that,
that you did extremely well tasking at bruiser and it works and every leader
should be very conscious to them.
Yeah.
The less you talk,
the more people listen.
All right.
Next goal
in a,
in a middle management position,
what's the best way to support the company and leadership you work for while
still showing your fellow workers?
They are supported and appreciated.
I work in surgery
at a large hospital within even larger corporation.
This is one of those things,
and I remember saying,
I'm sure I got this from Hackworth,
but it's one of those things that I've said so many times,
I actually probably forget to even give credit to Hackworth,
but you know,
when problems,
little problems would arise up the chain of command and I'd be like,
everyone hates the echelon of command above them.
Right.
That's the way it is.
Like,
and that's just the way it is.
That's the way it is.
It's always,
they don't get it.
they don't understand unless you get somebody that really knows how to explain
and communicate down the chain of command so that everyone understands why
they're doing what they're doing.
That's what this is.
That's exactly what this is.
I get it.
What's the best way to support the company in leadership is to take what the
company and the leadership of the company says and translate it to the troops in
a way that they understand and that means something to them,
right?
So you go to a big meeting and you know like let's say an all hands meeting for
a company and,
and the CEO is saying,
Hey,
we made,
we made $87 million last year profit.
And if all the frontline troops are in there,
they're like,
well that's cool.
But I didn't see that reflected in my pay cheque.
By the way.
You gave me a $4 raise over the last three years.
How about some of that 87 million kick it down to the people.
So that's problematic because we aren't explaining,
hey,
that's it.
That literally that statement right there,
we'll actually make people mad.
The CEO's thinking,
everyone's going to love me because I'm telling you how profitable we are as a
company.
All everyone's thinking as well.
Then why can't you afford to buy me that piece of gear that we need on the front
lines?
What's your problem?
That's so you actually think you're helping,
but you're actually hurting unless you can explain to people,
look,
we made this much profit.
Here's how it's going to benefit us as a company and you as a frontline troop,
by us making this much money,
it means we can grow these areas.
It means we can bring on more people.
That means everyone in this room right now,
in the next three years,
you're going to have an opportunity to be in a leadership position.
That's what I'm talking about.
That's why we're trying to grow.
That's why we're trying to do better.
By the way,
as we,
this is snowball.
I'm even more because now we're putting more money into advertising.
We've got a whole advertising campaign that's going out.
We've invested a bunch of money in that and it's going to bring us more
business.
And that means the jobs that you think might not be stable,
your job if you don't think it's stable,
it just got stable because we have the capital to get this machine moving even
faster.
So when you do that,
when you explain to the troops why something's happening,
it makes them understand and it shows your people,
hey,
you're supporting,
are there times where you should push back?
Yes there are.
And if something makes no sense whatsoever,
you should raise your hand and say,
Hey,
let me,
let me go.
Let me run this up.
The chain of command.
Let me run this up,
the chain of command and explain why this isn't a good idea.
And that way you can go and when you get the reason,
cause there'll be a reason and it might not be the best reason,
but it will be a reason.
And you go back to the troops and say,
Hey,
here's why this is going on.
This is what's happening,
this is the decision they made.
And you know what,
we're going to do our best to execute it because that's what we do.
We make things happen,
we're going to get it done.
Boom.
And we got a great,
we've got a great a depiction of that in,
in the talking about being humble,
not passive and pushing backward matters.
Uh,
in the deck out of me leadership,
uh,
that's a,
that whole section is talking exactly about that.
It's a very hard thing for people.
And that the basis of this question though is the US versus them,
right?
Front lines versus corporate headquarters.
Uh,
and you've got to defeat that.
If you're a good leader,
you got to recognize,
look,
we're all on the same team.
We can't do what we need to do without having the support and,
uh,
you know,
the resources and the approvals of plans,
uh,
from the,
corporate headquarters,
you know,
and,
and at corporate headquarters that oftentimes,
so not only are,
is there frustration up the chain,
there's also frustration down the chain.
You hear that all the time.
Like,
well,
the front lines,
they don't really get it.
They don't get it over there.
It.
Well,
listen,
from the front lines is where the actual mission gets won or lost.
So,
uh,
you,
you've got to,
you might want to have them on board with the PROZAC.
So you gotta make sure that you know that it's got to,
if you want a successful team,
you,
you can't have us versus them.
Everybody's got a horse.
They're the big win on board for the big one.
Yeah.
Oh,
the full metal jacket,
right?
What's your problem?
Why don't you get on board for the big win and,
and you think,
oh,
well if I'm the general,
and I'm telling this young guy that's got a peace sign on his helmet,
that represents the dichotomy.
Maybe that's where I learned the word dichotomy from that represents the
dichotomy of what does he say?
That dichotomy.
And he says the duality of duality of man.
Yeah,
you're right.
That represents the duality of,
man,
why don't you take that thing off and get on board for the big win?
And that's such a great line from that movie.
Joined the team son,
get on board for the big win.
Such a great line from that movie because that's exactly what we're talking
about.
That does absolutely nothing for that frontline soldier that goes,
okay,
you're saying that,
and I'm literally burying people right now in this situation,
and so for you saying that to me means nothing.
In fact,
it shows how completely freaking out of touch you are and so they did a great
job in that movie of representing that through one single line and why don't you
just get on board for the big win?
It's like,
well,
no,
actually,
why don't you lead?
How does that sound?
So communicate up and down the chain of command.
Make sure people know why and tie in why it matters to them.
Next question.
Yeah.
In extreme ownership,
you talk about being close with the team,
but not so close that they forget who's in charge or that the good of the team
suffers.
How do you overcome the isolation of leadership?
What strategies did or do you employ to avoid the isolation becoming an issue?
This is an example of,
I'm going to take this to the extreme.
Hey,
I'm not going to be too close to my people.
Guess what?
I'm not talking to them.
Right?
I'm not going to speak to them.
I'm going to,
I gotta maintain a distance.
I get up and it's,
it's obviously not true.
It's obviously not true.
And I think,
you know,
the,
the relationship that you and me and Seth and the,
that we all had was clearly,
uh,
this right.
I wasn't alone.
I wasn't isolated as the leader because we were all bros and hanging out.
And now did it start off like that?
No.
You know,
I,
as we always talk about like our come across Hackworth style of like,
Hey,
we're not going to joke around for at least whatever,
six to eight weeks to make sure that these dudes are good to go and that,
that they understand where I'm coming from and,
and that's cool.
But once we get through that,
okay,
like then it's like open up a little bit,
then it's like open up a little bit more than then is up bone up a little bit
more so that you're not isolated at the top.
Because not only is it important that you're not isolated,
that's like,
that's like a marginal thing.
What's more important is what I talked about earlier is if you,
if life can't come to me and say,
hey man,
hey,
I don't agree with this plan or more importantly,
Hey Jocko,
here's what's going on with the troops right now.
Here's what's going on with the mentality.
Here's what's going on with the morale.
If he can't knock on my door and say that to me,
then that's a real problem.
Because now,
you know,
um,
in the dark on what's happening inside inside with the troops,
which is problematic.
Yeah.
I think it's,
this to me sounds like a,
I was thinking about this question and it sounds to me like a maybe a junior
leader that was promoted at the shame cause that cause that's where you really
feel like when I go from,
you know,
the assistant platoon commander where I'm like kind of one of the boys and um,
we're,
we can,
you know,
it's kind of a,
I can kind of play interference with it,
with the officer in charge.
And the platoon commander now all of a sudden I get promoted as he recognize
instantly.
There's a little bit of difference.
You've got to maybe kind of distance yourself slightly from where you were
previously and recognize when you took over.
Yeah.
Charlie platoon as a platoon commander.
When did you realize that you needed to transition from being one of the boys
until being the OIC and that there was,
that the gap was going to open up a little bit?
Was it as soon as you took over?
It was pretty quick because I'd been to buds,
uh,
and,
and a seal qualification training,
you know,
escuchar advanced training with a,
with several guys.
And I knew these guys very well.
And you know,
I think we had a big house party hanging out,
you know,
having a good time and,
and uh,
everybody's over at my house and all of a sudden I realized some I did all the
time,
you know,
as an assistant platoon commander and all of a sudden,
uh,
we're in at work,
you know,
the next week and I got to get to make some tough calls and we've got to get,
drive the standards a little bit higher where we're at.
And there's some pushback and you realize like,
okay,
when it's,
when it's time to give people some bad news or say,
hey,
we're not doing as good as we should.
We need to fix that.
And they kind of give you the like,
hey bro,
you know,
what are you doing on Friday?
Then it's,
then you're like,
okay,
I'm going to have to,
I'm going to have to distance a little bit.
But the,
the isolation,
you should never be isolated.
I think that's one thing that,
you know,
I remember coming into your office and,
uh,
I would come in and hang out all the time and your office,
you know,
you,
you'd,
you'd come in and hang out in the platoon space.
I mean,
I've come,
you know,
we'd,
we'd see each other and to jam.
We like,
we are always trying to find a way to like hang out and talk and,
and um,
it was even when,
you know,
Seth stone was all the way across the other side of the city.
I mean,
I,
you know,
we'd still connect with him and talked to him on the phone or once a while and I
talked to him all the time on the,
uh,
a and DVT.
Yeah,
you guys,
do you guys talk regular but,
but having,
but even me,
you know,
he would always,
he came by like,
we'd always try to try to get together and talk to each other and catch up,
whether it was in the Chow Hall or are,
uh,
you know,
in,
in a platoon space.
And,
uh,
you know,
guys,
I've ever,
Tony would come in there.
I'd come in,
I'd walk in and I'd see the wind plan written up on chocolates,
whiteboard and tasking at bruiser or Tony had written down all the things that
we needed to do to win and robotics,
which is pretty harsh.
Yes,
true.
But probably on the property,
on the level like Ganga Eskom and certainly con rib plan,
which you know,
hey man,
we are,
has its merit.
We're joking and laughing about that.
This is the relationship Jocko hat,
you know,
not only with me but with other leaders in the task unit.
And uh,
and I think you have to have that.
I mean,
you've got to have a,
you've got to have a relationship with your people.
You can't think that I can't talk to anyone.
I can't interact with anyone.
I think there's,
you're going to be unsuccessful as a leader.
Um,
you know,
if,
if you try to roll that way,
it's just not going work.
You know,
I think where you might feel what might feel like a isolation,
which is definitely true,
and this is the burden of command,
right?
Like,
guess what?
You're friends with Lafe,
you're friends with Seth,
you're friends with Tony,
you're friends with these guys.
But at the same time,
like,
oh,
the burden of command is on you and it's going to be,
it's going to be you.
You're going to,
you're going to bear that right in your platoon.
It's like,
Hey,
you got your assistant platoon commanders,
you've got your opportunity if you've got your Lpo.
But when something goes wrong,
if something goes wrong,
if you,
if there's a bad,
if something happens on a mission to it goes bad.
I'm not talking,
I'm not,
I'm not looking at the assistant platoon commander.
I'm,
I'm looking at you.
That's the burden of command.
That's so that thing.
Yeah,
that's,
that.
There's one man that stands on the carpet,
right.
That's,
that's the way it works.
And sometimes being one man,
that's,
that's a little bit of an isolating feeling.
And to help help you understand that.
Our leading petty officer,
Charter Tone.
Awesome.
Awesome,
amazing seal.
Love the guy.
And,
uh,
hopefully it can be on here one of these days,
but after maybe their heroes as retirement comes when one of these days.
But uh,
he was,
we were,
we were up in Nevada training and uh,
we took a couple of days to go snowboarding,
which was a,
an awesome,
good deal.
And he's like,
oh,
we're in the van.
He looks around,
he like sees me,
he's like,
I'm not the senior guy.
And uh,
so he's scream and a laugh and about how awesome it is to not be the senior guy
cause he knows the burden of command is now with me,
not with him.
The fuck guys get in trouble or do something stupid they should to know
which is while you're in Tahoe guys getting in trouble and doing stuff stupid is
probably a fairly likely thing to have happen.
Highly probable.
That's one of my favorite trips that I did multiple times.
Yeah.
So that's it man.
Build relationships and at the same time you are,
when you're in charge,
you're in charge and there's a little bit of a,
that's called the burden of command.
Embrace it.
And I think we got time for one more question
here ago in Lafe and Jockos opinion,
you've been excluded from this one,
Echo Charles.
So they don't want your opinion.
What has changed or what point do you find you need to emphasize more from when
you wrote extreme ownership to now?
Oh,
this is a softball question that I selected.
All the easy ones.
Well yeah,
I think the answer to this one is pretty obvious.
That's why we wrote the book that got to me leadership.
I mean this is a,
this is what we had needed.
Emphasize more.
And uh,
just as you know,
you talked about this when we were talking about jaws too.
You know,
whether or not you know,
the sequence is going to be as good.
And you know,
we,
we had pressure to write a book.
Extreme ownership did very well.
Like,
Hey,
you guys should write of the book.
We didn't want to write another book until we actually had something useful to
write about that would impact leaders for the better.
Help them be better people that are leaders,
lead better teams,
lead better lives.
And that's what this is tight.
The dichotomy of leadership answers,
uh,
the most difficult challenges and obstacles that we see leaders face.
And,
and I think that three years,
you know,
one thing that,
uh,
extreme ownership did for us.
I mean our company blew up as a result echelon front.
We were able to work with so many more,
uh,
leaders and so many more companies and we got to see this over and over and over
and over and over again.
And uh,
and this,
uh,
this is capturing those,
those issues,
uh,
that,
that we saw,
uh,
and then the solutions to solve those problems through leadership.
Yeah,
I think it's going to be pretty evident.
I think it was cool how it revealed itself as the subject matter of the next
book.
I mean,
we,
like you said,
business blew up.
Yes,
we were busy.
We weren't really sitting there going,
okay,
what should the next book would be about?
What's in the next book be about?
We actually didn't even think of,
we weren't even thinking about it.
And then as we started saying,
hey,
you know,
people don't understand this as well.
Hey we,
we should have added more chapters about the dichotomy we,
and it's like over time,
all of a sudden it became very,
it became completely blatantly obvious that what people needed help with was
this most difficult thing,
which is achieving the balance of all the different dichotomies of leadership.
And that's why we wrote the dichotomy in leadership,
gets them right on.
Well,
we're just hitting that two hour mark,
which means we only have two hours for echo to talk about support.
It's just saying,
man,
you said echoes excluded for that last question,
but I want to know what your answer is that go from what you've learned.
I learned since extreme low ships come out since the podcast is launched.
Okay.
So the,
the,
the main thing that sticks out,
main thing is that is what people seem to ask you all the time is what do I do
when other people aren't taking extreme ownership?
And here's the thing.
When you're outside and listening to you,
you're like,
Aha,
I see what you know.
I,
it's almost like a funny question,
right?
Because it's like what,
what do you call that?
Like Ironic,
right?
Kinda where they're like,
what do you do when other people,
but it's you the one supposed to anyway,
so that's six.
But the reason that that's significant is because when you're in the situation,
that's exactly what it feels like.
You can't really see it.
See what I'm saying?
So you got a detach,
which kind of sheds we even more light on the,
uh,
the importance of detaching.
All right.
So it kind of feeds into itself,
but so yeah,
when you're in the situation and you have to essentially take ownership when the
other person should be taking ownership factually in your mind,
the other project,
hey,
you need to take responsibility for this.
That's the time you got to take responsibility of it.
Yeah.
It's hard to like,
it's hard to really grasp that.
In the beginning I thought,
well,
that was pretty cool.
Recently we got an email from a guy that's overseas running a company and he,
he listened to Dave Burk and guilty.
Yeah.
Good deal,
Dave.
And I think it's a great example to say,
can you take ownership of the weather,
right?
Because the obvious answer is no,
I can't take ownership of the weather.
And I talked about this on that podcast is like,
well actually you can because you can come up with contingency plans,
you can come up with,
you can stage your force forward closer.
And so anyways,
this guy in his company,
it's a software type company and implementation company and they piggy back on a
big giant,
you know,
one of the biggest companies in the world and that biggest company in the world,
one of the biggest companies in the world made some errors and it messed up
their platform.
And they went to their client and said,
hey,
the platform got messed up.
It was the big guys,
they did this,
this,
and this wrong.
And the people were like,
oh,
well,
okay.
You know,
I guess,
and then he went home and he listened to that podcast and he went,
I screwed up because the,
that's,
Hey,
the biggest company in the world is still easier to control than the weather.
Right?
And so he went back to the company and he went back to the his client and said,
you know what?
It wasn't their fault.
It was our fault.
It was my fault.
Here's some things I'm going to put in place so that this never happens again,
and all of a sudden the attitude completely changes and the client is super
happy and his all of his team also because what does that do to your team when
you blame,
when you blame the weather,
your team just goes,
okay,
we've got a permanent excuse.
Now,
whether it wasn't good,
cs were too big,
when was too high,
cloud cover was too low.
Whatever the case may be,
you've got a permanent excuse now because you can't control the actually wrong,
wrong.
We do control the weather.
We,
we will set up our missions.
We will set up our contingencies that no matter what the weather does,
where do accomplish the mission,
no matter what our big,
we'll never wouldn't,
no matter what the big platform that we rely on,
no matter what happens with them,
we're going to be in control.
That's how we roll.
Get some,
that feedback was phenomenal.
And to hear him say that his client was like,
I've never seen anyone handle a problem like this before.
You guys have done an amazing job,
and it's,
it's another example of how you're,
you're scared to take ownership by taking ownership.
You're willing trust,
building trust,
and you win it when you take ownership and you actually get the problem solved
going forward.
Speaking of ownership and taking ownership,
maybe echo could take ownership of,
you know,
support.
Sure.
Be Happy to,
how to support,
you know,
sure.
Selves,
selves,
the path.
Really,
that's what we're supporting the path,
right?
You think you're on the path that you not on the path,
If you're not on the path,
well actually,
even what he posted a picture of just a sign that said,
please stay on the path
is legit.
Exactly right.
And I was gonna say,
if you're not in the path,
we were not talking to you,
but if you're not in the path,
I think we're talking to you equally.
Maybe more so.
I want to say more still,
but really if you're on the path,
what I'm talking super loud too.
So equally I think,
I dunno,
maybe we'll think about that more later.
Um,
we'll go into origin,
right?
Our Co company origin main.com.
Geese,
rash guard for Jujitsu.
Lafe talked about Jujitsu earlier.
Awesome stuff.
Yeah,
origin makes the best stuff.
It's a,
I've got,
I think I have like five different,
uh,
you have the for the first very first origin GI I ever touched was yours
as well,
right?
Yeah.
Interesting.
And I was like,
was it the muster and uh,
yeah,
in New York Real,
when you see the weave like on the origin,
the pattern in there,
you can understand.
Do you have,
do you have currently,
do you have any other geese that are not origin?
I have three gays.
I have one non origin to origin.
I'll put that on,
put that on.
And then he says it like as a threat,
but put that on,
see what kitchens,
boy,
what happened.
And I'm serious cause I put on mine,
I was like,
oh should I keep this or not?
I put,
I put it on,
you know,
one of my old and I was like,
Bro,
I can't,
I can't wear this.
Like it doesn't donate those geese.
Even at the,
at the,
at the white belt level.
Uh,
I can totally tell that I roll better and my origin game.
Oh yeah,
that's a whole nother level.
They felt good.
He's rolling bad.
I'm telling you
it actually has give to my shoulders.
I can move in a way that like I would,
my other geese,
I,
it's,
it's really tight.
I can't move and I feel like I don't,
I actually,
I seem to be more,
what percentage of increased performance do you achieve wearing an origin?
At least Nypa 19% minimum of life.
That is a good point because I had a Gig,
it was like my second gig ever and I was like,
hey,
that one looks cool.
Cause it had like cool designs on it or whatever.
And it was like thick material.
For some reason I thought that beefy thick material looked cool.
So I got it.
And it,
I'm not gonna,
I'm not gonna name the name of the brand.
So it doesn't even matter.
But um,
yeah,
when I'm rolling in it feels like more claustrophobic.
Like with which we know you have an issue with before.
Yeah.
Back in those days.
Did I carry,
you have claustrophobia?
I think you were contributing to the cure of my clouds rolling.
Andy and we were working with the g and I was trying to do like a crazy
whatever.
Lapel,
not lapel.
What's the,
what's the down here?
Like the bottom part of the jacket?
Yeah,
there's the little had to Andy and house and I was almost just working something
and I couldn't,
I didn't have enough jacket out and I was like,
I whisper to him like I'm going to have origin make you a thing
for him to wear.
Yes,
exactly.
And then he was doing,
he,
you know how people drag your jacket and they get between your leg on a single,
you know what I mean?
Just,
and he,
he's doing it.
He's like,
that's his game right now.
And I told him and then I was home.
I'm going to make half origin,
make a gift from me.
That's shorter.
It's tailored to your,
we got to do it,
we've got to do it.
That makes sense though.
If you roll better,
like if you're feeling like you're kind of in a straight check.
I'm not saying other brands feel like straight Jack.
I'm not saying that,
but I'm saying if you have a specific feeling while you're rolling and it's
for a guy like me,
it's not very flexible.
It's,
it's awesome and it definitely improves your game and it helps you and you look
good by the way.
Side,
no.
Also speaking of looking good and feeling good and comfort,
they do have joggers and tee shirts and whatnot.
Most comfortable joggers still today in my experience,
which just means a lot.
Are you getting Jocko to where this job?
My joggers apparently the undisputed champion of comfort at fair according to
kind of story and rash guards I wear,
I wear the rash card when I'm working out some days the days I wear it when I'm
working out,
it's long sleeve is when I'm doing a lot of stuff on the rings so my arms don't
get all choked up,
which is a comfort move.
If you break it down,
just saying,
yeah,
well let's say the results of not having the rash guard or impedes or it gets in
the way of your functionality or something like this.
You know how like,
um,
like some people that were,
they'll were straps or they'll wear 'em on an a one of the,
oh,
like some of that at a full power lifting suit.
Yeah,
I've seen that.
Yeah.
Like the full thing.
But that's more of like in a,
I don't know when someone else has to put your belt on you.
You know what I'm saying?
When they're like heaving,
there's two or three people trying to heave the belt and a position.
Yeah.
I guess no,
I'm thinking more cause like can compare that to your rash guard scenario.
Right?
It's like something,
something that's going to like,
you know,
people wear those things on their hands so they don't get blisters.
Right.
So the blisters show you could power through it,
but if,
if it was measurable,
would it get in the way of the performance,
the blisters.
You do rip a Callus,
which sometimes people post ripped Callison and I get it like you got a good
workout in,
but guess what?
Your tomorrow's workout is not going to be as good,
especially with the exact tomorrow on the dead lifts with the rip callous from
pull ups,
you need to go back for some maintenance calcis.
Yeah,
so the question is,
I'm stoked you got after it,
but I'm not stoked it the next day when you're like not being able to lift,
so let's say they wear gloves or in your case you were the rash guards.
Is that technically for comfort or is it for,
you know,
the facilitate functionality?
Yeah.
I don't,
I don't know if I could see fit to say that I've witnessed you do anything for
comfort as far as getting after it goes.
Okay,
cool.
I'll keep note.
We'll keep looking for that one.
Also,
what supplements?
Supplements?
Yeah,
Jocko.
What's up?
Joint Warfare.
We got Krill oil,
we got discipline,
joint warfare and Krill oils for your joints and now surprisingly alternate
fact,
curcumin is also good for your brain function apparently,
which I could use all the help I can get.
Yeah,
I just,
I just got an order in uh,
a new new replacement order and for some Krill oil and no joint warfare.
Wait,
I hear you're on the discipline train right now.
I'm all the discipline trade right at this moment.
I see you've got some discipline master right at this moment to unfortunately
lost discipline earlier.
Dude,
this is weird.
Lack of discipline.
He,
he,
he made discipline and then he lost his discipline.
I mixed up a huge bottle of discipline,
a Jockos House,
and then as we were leaving to come here,
I'm like,
what the hell did I do with it?
Where is your discipline?
I think you're,
I think your dog is probably getting after right now on level 19.
But you got it back though.
I see.
So that milk can forget about the milk,
which is the tastiest of all Taystee's.
This is comfort.
And I'll be honest with you now,
maybe I burned myself out on men,
but I've been going,
I've been going Richter on TB and I haven't tried these yet.
I'll only have,
I've got mint chocolate chip,
I run after it.
So the,
okay,
so the chocolate or the peanut butter chocolate and comes in,
oh,
big hype.
We're talking about it.
Does it come in and it's supposed to come in this one week,
it took what?
A few days later,
whatever the big hype comes in,
everyone's fired up.
I'm one of those people.
So I'm like boom,
pilot.
So I'm pounding a chocolate peanut butter now,
pounding it,
milk train,
full speed,
double Moltrin training.
So after awhile I'm pounding the,
the peanut butter,
you know,
one.
And then I look and I still have that mint one.
One day I go in,
I'm gonna make it.
I see the mid one and the mint,
when it looked like he was looking at me like,
what did you forget about me?
You know,
like I was cheating on them.
Like I had less than men,
you know,
so,
uh,
I put them in one back in and I was reminded that that is my favorite one.
Different flavor.
Yeah.
I but um,
they,
they taste good.
See,
it's Kinda like,
um,
it's,
it's ridiculous.
It's ridiculous that you can just completely eat that and just enjoy it.
My son has been posted,
I've been retreating it.
Someone's been posting like milk recipes.
Oh yeah.
[inaudible] I haven't tried any of them yet because I just,
that's not my thing.
What do you,
we just put it straight in milk.
Oh No,
I just put it in milk.
But this guy is creating like,
like cookies,
balls,
cookies,
all kinds of crazy,
most conventions.
And they look good and he's saying they taste good.
So I don't know.
[inaudible] what you do is,
or what I wound up doing is because peanut butter is like to,
in my opinion,
undeniable thing in life.
Peanut butter,
the flavor,
the mint chocolate.
So I put actual peanut butter.
You sometimes you can mix one scoop,
one scoop,
you know,
peanut butter,
chocolate and the mint chocolate.
Cool.
But you've done that.
Oh,
I'm not building.
That's like crossing the streams and Ghostbusters and you know that's how they
won the movie.
That's how they defeated the bad guy.
They cross the street so
she do is you put peanut butter with the milk when that's due,
that report back.
Okay.
Hey,
would at this time invite everyone to the immersion camp,
but it's sold out so I'm sorry God sign up next year early and come hang out
with us at the immersion camp check.
Yes.
Also good way to just to support Jocko has a store.
It's called Jocko store and this is where you can get apparel.
Apparel's cool,
right?
Yeah.
Fashion is not,
not cool fashion apparel,
but if you want to represent it,
it has not.
What we're doing right there you go,
but you will look fashionable if you accept the terms.
Questionable Jocko does anybody not?
Yeah.
All good.
You'll look good though.
I think.
I Dunno.
That's a matter of opinion,
but if you want to represent,
that's where you can get shirts,
rash guards,
hats,
trucker hats,
namely trucker hat or flex fit.
Where are you at her?
At city.
There you go.
Dang.
When did the flex fit?
Yeah.
Interesting.
I'm actually speaking of report back.
I want to know what sells more trucker hat or or flex fit.
That's an interesting question.
Let's find out what you're doing now and also got a long comment about hoodies.
A guy from Michigan that works construction said,
Hey Jocko,
just letting you know in Michigan
we do need lightweight hoodies.
Oh boom.
Everything I've ever said has been disproven.
Now this is one man's opinion.
Yes.
You know.
Well here's the thing about that.
When you kind of take a step back,
it's like you,
you just went extreme.
You weren't wrong.
You just went extreme.
That's all.
You got to have the balance
equilibrium.
So this guy in Michigan,
he had the balance cause he knows the extreme,
he knows about the value of that big hoodies in Michigan.
It for the folks in Michigan though,
like being up there in North Dakota,
they went to work at like when you go to Alaska and you,
you know,
it's like pretty cool out and you got your jacket on.
He looked around and this dude too,
like t shirts,
just setting it up.
It's all relative
like in Maine,
just where I just wear a heavy sweatshirt all day long.
I mean all winter long,
maybe occasionally you got to throw on some kind of a Parka and you know the
park is being from Hawaii.
No,
that sounds,
yeah.
So what you'll do with your car,
right on the trucker hat to a flex foot debate.
Dope.
Like flex foot I think is great.
I like flex flex foot hats,
but I will say I've got a large Mellon.
Uh,
being able to adjust is important.
Particularly when you're fishing and you're rolling out and your hat gets blown
off and then it's,
then it's soaking wet.
He's like,
man,
we're the largest Mellon I've ever seen on a human.
There was a guy on the special boat teams who was a great dude.
He was a big,
I'll just say Polynesian.
Maybe he was Filipino.
Maybe he was Polynesian,
I don't know.
But he was something like that.
Right?
Pacific islander,
I guess he's head was so big.
Okay.
You know what?
Protech helmet,
you know to protect,
protect bike helmet.
He had one of those four for riding in the boat for like doing operations where
you got to wear a helmet.
He had one of those and he had all the foam inside of it.
All of it was gone and we still had to like basically grease up his head to get
that thing on and it would be was crazy how big.
His head was huge and he was a great dude but he had a huge head.
He had no protection.
He just had a little thin.
He only wore that thing cause it was a part of the rules.
Technicality.
He could've just called.
He goes,
well look,
I don't need to helmet my freaking
get away from me.
I get this stupid home at all and people.
All right,
so he would need the flex fit in a lot of flex in that fit.
Do you need a lot of flex in that fit?
I don't think the truck or would fit nonetheless.
Anyway,
like I said,
Jocko store.com this week can get all this cool.
My opinion.
Cool stuff from when you make new stuff to new stuff is on there.
Yeah.
Jocko white tea.
There's a shirt.
So my brother has a Pepsi shirt.
Garbage,
garbage pail kids.
Yes.
You know the little cards.
So my twin brother Jake,
he has a garbage pail kid shirt and you'd think as an adult you're like all
right.
But it kind of,
you know,
it's kind of cool.
It's cool.
Sure.
And then you get your Pepsi shirt.
Like even if you don't drink Pepsi,
it just looks cool.
Right?
So we've got a Jocko white tee shirts.
So that was not,
I thought I actually gave you credit in my mind for having an original cool.
Cause I thought I didn't think it looked pretty cool.
And the thing is,
it does the,
the fact is that concept is a very cool concept.
I didn't do it because hey Pepsi do it,
so let's do it.
That's not why I did it.
I think that that concept is cool.
Right on Jocko white tea.
Let me get this shirt and it's a tee shirt.
We call those layers anyway.
Yeah.
Some new stuff on there.
Check it out.
Check.
Awesome.
Good way to support is to subscribe to the podcast.
If you haven't already on iTunes,
Google play,
stitcher,
wherever you are,
wherever you listen to your podcast,
just subscribed.
That's a good way to support and leave a review.
If you're in the mood and you know you want your kids to listen to this podcast,
but you know you can't because sometimes it's completely inappropriate,
but for that reason we have the warrior kick podcast and that's questions from
uncle Jake or for Uncle Jake and so you can get that one to the youtube.
We also have a youtube channel that you can subscribe to.
Hey,
subscribe.
You know what?
Let's not do this.
You never watch a youtube video and the end at the end it costs.
Please subscribe and Click whatever,
click.
We're not going to do that.
Yeah,
we're not going to do that.
When you think about it,
and I don't want to go into a whole deep thing here,
but it seems like as a consumer,
that's it.
As a,
as an audience member of viewer of videos,
whatever you,
and it does defeat the whole purpose of clicking like right when you like have,
let me ask you this,
how many people do you think at the end of a youtube video where it says click
subscribe now to watch more awesome videos,
how many people does that convince push them over the edge and they just can't
stop?
I don't know.
But from what I've read before,
it's like they recommend that like that you do that as a content creator is what
they call it.
They say,
yeah,
Hey,
just ask cause people will do it kind of thing.
It's Kinda like,
hey,
you can't get,
if you don't ask,
but it does kind of give you this kind of underlying feeling of like,
you're asking me to do something that's made to be organic.
It's made to be,
if you like this video,
you press like that's what that thing is made for and now you're asking me to
violate that whole reason that it's made.
So you want me to do it as a favor?
Like you ain't gonna like your videos.
I was watching your video cause I thought we were just cool.
I,
yeah,
and I thought we were just having a little moment,
right?
A little,
two minute and 32nd moment and then I get to the end of it and now y'all
started,
you're coming out saying,
asking me to do this and do that and now this was not,
I see what it was.
It was a setup
and I'm not saying that's what people were doing.
I'm not saying that's what you're doing.
If you're doing that,
I'm just saying as a consumer or as a viewer,
that's what it kind of feels like.
We'll try and avoid that.
Try to just saying,
hey,
on this podcast,
go there and subscribe to it.
That way you won't get bothered with a little thing from echo at the end that
says,
please click subscribe to more videos from Echo Cha podcasts to here.
Let's put it this way.
The most,
the most,
how should I say?
Accurate for lack of better term,
way to put it.
If you didn't know that we have a youtube channel we do.
If you didn't know,
you could subscribe to it.
Boom.
Now you do.
If you want to subscribe,
you can,
but that goes without saying.
Obviously.
Same thing with the like,
oh,
like I like it.
That's a youtube that's youtube grabbed her.
Yup.
It's true.
Also,
if you're working out,
you want to switch it up,
I'm talking about on it.
So on it.com/jocko here's the thing too,
which I kind of forget to say you get 10% off if you go to the slash Jocko so go
on at.com/jobs so when you're buying your kettle bells,
primal bells,
legend bills,
rings in,
you know,
battle road,
stuff like that.
Go on it.com/chocolate that's where you can get 10% off really good stuff.
Their good info as well.
Psychological warfare is an album with tracks.
We're working on number two right now,
so we'll make that happen.
And I'm getting some good requests via the interwebs about what should be on
there.
So I tunes Google play MP3 platforms.
You can get that psychological warfare album
with trucks.
But what does that for though?
We're not going to let you say it.
Everybody knows what it's for.
It wasn't for,
do you notice for yes.
He knows what it's for.
It's to combat those moments of weakness that we all have.
I'm going to make a psychological track about how to not say something that has
been said.
What'd he do it?
He do it.
Oh yeah,
some days worse.
That's something that's not been said yet.
Beat a dead horse.
I'm just saying if,
if this is the first time they heard it,
they're going to be like,
hey,
what is that psychological warfare?
I know what regular the traditional psychological warfare is.
It's kind of like if I kept saying,
hey,
Jocko white tea.
Oh,
you know what?
You can,
you can deadlift 8,000 pounds.
And I kept saying that over and over again and never stopped saying it.
Yeah,
that'd be kind of like what you're doing.
but so it seems like it from your perspective,
but from the perspective of someone just tuning in,
you're not seeing just turning it over 138 podcast.
Here's the thing,
and they started here.
They did.
They'll go listen to another one.
They'll hear it eventually and then they'll start to hear it over and over
again.
Right.
But I'm saying as an individual account,
which means more in my opinion,
I think just get ahold of you said it on the Mat.
Yeah,
that's right.
I know we're getting
Amazon cans.
You can get cancer.
People don't know this.
You can get cancer Jocko white tea.
It's stopped drinking other energy drinks that are filled with sugar and other
crap and get yourself from Jocko Willink.
Me Ask you this.
So you know how there's these preworkouts,
right?
You know we're preworkout fitting is right.
It's like super like it's,
I don't know what pre work.
It's hard,
but I know it are.
You know what I'm talking about,
right?
The one that they have,
they have like a bunch of caffeine,
whatever the label is real shiny a lot of the time.
You know what I'm talking about?
Oh,
you want you with the ones that have a light label that's really exciting.
And there was lightning bolts.
All right,
so let me ask you this.
If I have a Jocko white tea in a can.
Yeah,
it's cold.
right.
Very refreshing.
And then I put some of that energy,
uh,
pre workout in it since it doesn't have that much caffeine.
And I was maybe looking for some caffeine.
If I put that pre workout stuff in the,
in the Jocko white tea.
How much of a violation is that on a scale from one to 10?
I don't think it's a violation,
but I would just use discipline.
You can put discipline and Jocko white.
Yeah.
But that's just another micro dose of caffeine.
No Caffeine jungle,
right.
White Tea,
that's the thing.
Sure.
There's takes got jammed up.
There's 60 milligrams of caffeine and Jocko white tea cans.
That's,
that's enough.
Let's say hypothetically,
again,
hypothetically one was looking for more than 60 milligrams.
Get get Greek fire.
Okay.
So you know what Greek virus origin,
Greek fire from origin,
which has caffeine in it.
It's like a,
it's like a fat burner.
Right?
So if you get that,
that has caffeine in it and it'll get you,
get you what you need.
Alright,
so the violation level four?
Yeah,
sure.
I drink a lot of coffee and uh,
a lot of caffeine or not yet.
That's Jocko white tea has got foot and calf pain from it.
It's legit.
I'll tell you what I like about it with the cans and it would take her weight.
It's been crazy hot in Texas this summer and just,
just pull like a freezing cold one out of the,
uh,
if I'm about to jump on my truck that's,
you know,
125 degrees from sitting out in the sun and crack open a super cold.
I'm rolling down the road.
It's pretty legit.
Yeah.
Mellow.
I gotta make it,
you know what I'm going to make,
is I going to make something like this that you can drink before you go to bed
at night?
Oh yeah.
Just cause,
cause I can't,
I mean I want,
sometimes it's seven or eight o'clock at night and I think,
Oh man,
I've crack one open.
But then I think now,
then I'll be all wired up all night.
Yeah.
Yay.
Some sort of a cause there's like,
you know tea,
what do you call the tea that you brew before bed.
It makes you feel kind of that.
Yeah.
Whoa,
whoa.
We got a situation here.
Tell me you didn't know all of that.
I didn't know about it.
What
does it cam a meal.
So you could take that approach,
right?
You could,
you could call it so we don't Jocko Kemah meal tea,
you know you could call it that if you want.
Yeah I would probably just call it like well I'll figure something out but I
will do that because I do need something at night.
Warm hot in the summertime or hot in the winter time.
But you could drink a cold.
That's tasty cause that's the thing about the,
the Jocko white tea is the taste is good.
Like we had this,
I thought where you're going with this.
If you had a can of Jocko white tea and it can have the most sweet,
like,
like doctored up thing that's supposed to taste delicious.
Which would you pick?
I'd pick Jocko white tea all day long because the taste is you when you,
you know when
you realize that Gatorade,
no offense against Gatorade.
No,
a little bit of fence group.
You know when you realize that Gatorade doesn't actually quench your thirst.
Like when you're,
I dunno,
I think I was 20 right and I was real thirsty and I drink a Gatorade and I was
like why am I still thirsty that cause there's syrup in there or whatever.
Doesn't work good Jocko white tea.
You could that quench
well this for back to the energy or the pre workout mix in the teeth scenario,
this person that we're talking about didn't finish it because it did jam up the
whole t scenario.
Okay.
It was like a theory check
nonetheless.
There it is.
Boom.
Jocko white tea,
understanding hey books we got where the word kid books where the warrior kid
and Mark's mission.
Those are good books for kids to read.
Just talking to a teacher out in the gym.
Yeah,
teaching the book.
Eighth Grade.
If you're wondering about,
well how old is an eighth grader?
1112,
11,
12,
so 11,
12 year old.
Definitely it maybe 13.
Sometimes when I meet someone and their kid is eight or 10,
I just think your kid's in the zone and they dig it so way.
The warrior kid and Mark's mission.
I just just started reading a way.
The way your kid to uh,
my son does he get it?
He's three,
he writes three,
he doesn't get it.
Uh,
we got,
we got about 30 days until he was fired up and he wanted to go out and do some
bull up.
So it's funny they get certain parts.
The grander kind of messages may not,
you know,
compute quite yet,
but yeah,
they'll get certain parts so they'll like,
like when this part comps stoked to the feedback on that one.
And also discipline equals freedom field manual.
It's a manual about how to get after it.
And the audio version is not on audible.
It's on iTunes,
Amazon music,
Google play and other MP3 platforms.
So you can make it specifically we did that.
Maybe took a little financial hit,
whatever.
Want people to be able to use it as an alarm clock in their phone or a ringtone.
So that's what you can do there.
Those are,
uh,
a few books.
Then we got,
then we got extreme ownership obviously,
which a jock when I wrote,
but out for three years now we have new new edition out and of course a
dichotomy of leadership,
which we were just talking about.
And that's for,
it's available now for preorder.
It'll be released September 25th.
Super excited about that.
Looking forward to all your readers out there.
Uh,
provide us some feedback on that.
And A,
I hope this is at least as useful to you,
uh,
in your lives.
Professional,
personal lives as extreme ownership.
So go get some dichotomy of leadership,
find the balance.
You also leave.
Talk to me about the difference between first a dish and let's say fifth,
a dish of a book,
which would you rather have?
Which was,
which
would I rather have?
Yeah,
I'd have to go with the first edition.
That's right.
Anything that's sort of the standard,
that's the standard.
Is there anyone running around going,
man I wish I had the night,
the day she can wait for that fourth edition
then that it is pretty cool with extreme ownership with where there uh,
people still come up to us and have,
you know,
with,
with uh,
the caught in the original paper this was printed on was not very good for
extreme ownership.
You know,
it doesn't have the,
uh,
and it doesn't have the number one New York Times bestseller cost the top.
So every once while we still see some of those you're like,
wow,
that's a,
that was a first printing run.
I just,
it's pretty cool
that the other day,
so a girl came up and I was signing her,
her first a dish and there's,
there's,
there's four additions that you could possibly have.
There's more than that.
But the first one that came out is white and there's no sticker on.
As soon as they,
as soon as that made New York Times best seller,
they went and got stickers that says Number One New York Times best selling.
They put them everywhere cause it's a,
it's an advertising Gig,
right?
But there's so the people that got the first 10,000 copies,
it's just a plain first a dish.
So I know there's people and then you got,
then they got the stickers on it.
So you're still early.
Then you got the one that actually has printed on the cover,
Number One New York Times best seller,
blah blah blah.
And then finally we get to the fourth,
the fourth version,
which is the black cover back in black,
which is,
wait,
we have to say that one's pretty good.
Cool.
Yes,
it does look different.
We're good,
cool avenues.
Coolness and yeah,
it's a different avenue of coolness.
But still the first,
the dish,
we always like the first dish.
And if you,
so if the,
my point is if you want the first a dish,
you got to order it pre.
Otherwise you're going to get some other,
you know,
you'll get one that says something else on it.
Be all different.
And we'll know when I meet you.
I'll just,
I'll just be,
oh,
you want me to sign that before?
That's cool.
I'm glad you got in the game eventually.
Oh No,
I'm,
I appreciate it.
Um,
echelon front
view.
If you're interested in coming in and bringing us in to talk to your,
your,
your leadership team,
uh,
your,
your frontline troops,
your mid level managers,
whatever it may be.
A,
that's what we do with echelon front is we solve problems through leadership.
Everything that we wrote about extreme ownership,
all the things that we just talked about for dichotomy of leadership as what we
do.
Uh,
it's me and Jocko.
We launched this company going on seven years now.
Um,
and we worked with a lot of companies since and now,
you know,
in addition,
we've got a,
to me Ajiaco we got JP Denelle,
we got Dave Burke,
we've got Flynn Cochran,
we've got some Mike Cirelli and we just pick up a new member of our team.
Uh,
main gun,
Mike Bama.
A,
a company commander with us in Ramadi.
Outstanding,
outstanding guy,
awesome team of folks.
And uh,
so you're interested in what we do through echelon front.
Go hit us up at a echelon,
front.com.
We've got the muster,
which is,
uh,
two days leadership
conference seminar gathering.
That's what I'm called the,
it's a leadership muster.
That's what it feels straight up.
October 17th and 18th,
up in San Francisco.
All the other ones have sold out.
This is the six muster.
They've all sold out.
This one's going,
this one's going to sell out even earlier.
Actually,
we're way ahead of schedule way ahead of schedule.
If you want to come to an extreme ownership.com you can come to the muster.
And then also for our military,
law enforcement,
firefighters,
border patrol,
paramedics,
first responders,
anybody in uniform.
We're,
we're launching our first ever,
uh,
first responder or military uniform wearing focused,
leadership,
uh,
gathering.
And this is what we're calling it.
The roll call roll call zero zero one a first ever is going to happen.
September 21st in Dallas.
And a,
this thing is,
it was,
it was by request.
We worked with so many different,
uh,
first responders and,
you know,
a fire departments and law enforcement groups and police departments,
federal,
state,
local.
We were worked with all levels of,
uh,
you know,
of,
of a,
of these groups.
And we've had so many folks say,
Hey,
can we have a focus leadership conference just for us?
And that's what this is.
So we've got to several hundred people have already already signed up for this
thing.
Well,
this is,
this is for you guys.
This is for all you listeners that are interested in this.
We tried to make it at a price point that was much more affordable than the
muster of so that we could,
we could have as many folks attend as,
as could come.
And,
uh,
we hope you come from far and wide to be,
they're going to be talking about the importance of training,
the importance of,
uh,
dealing with what you deal with every day and driving those standards and a,
and pushing your team,
uh,
and leading up the chain as well as,
you know,
all those kinds of specific law enforcement,
firefighter first responder,
uh,
military focused issues,
that we can really dive into.
You know,
we don't have to talk about the business leader stuff cause this is for you
guys.
That's what it's for.
So if you're interested in that,
if you're on the fence,
if you're thinking about it,
come join us for a roll call at,
uh,
in Dallas September 21st.
And of course you've heard on this podcast,
we've,
we launched a new company,
a subsidiary company to echelon front.
It's called Echelon Front,
Overwatch,
r,
e,
F,
Overwatch.
And uh,
you can check that out at,
uh,
at@efoverwashed.com.
It's a,
it's a great company designed to,
uh,
we,
one of the biggest things that,
that,
uh,
that we see from the companies who work with is people ask us,
where can we get people like you?
Where can we get folks with a mindset of extreme ownership?
And so we started that in the special operations world.
And the goal of Overwatch is to take a special operations veterans and combat
aviator veterans and place them in companies with a play.
Place them in companies who are looking for people with that mindset.
And EFO Overwatch is a,
is something I'm,
I'm super excited about.
We have a massive demand signal right now,
frankly,
have a lot more clients that are reaching out,
these companies that are seeking a folks a place,
uh,
in,
in offered them job opportunities.
And we have a lot more clients that we have on the candidate side.
So if you're a,
a special operator,
uh,
and you're,
you're about to be retired or are leaving just leaving the military or I've left
a even a few years ago or a cow on the combat aviation side,
go to eff overwatch.com,
fill out the uh,
uh,
the application there and now start the paperwork because we've got,
there's an awesome opportunity,
uh,
here for some great companies with a,
some,
some great leadership positions and some,
some promising promotion opportunities in a,
in some companies that exhibit extreme ownership that have that as part of their
culture.
So don't miss out on those opportunities.
Go to the website,
uh,
input your information if overwatch.com and a come get in the game.
There's a lot of,
a lot of great work to be done,
a lot of massive opportunity out there.
Companies need good leaders.
Come and get it.
And until we see you at the monster or we see you at roll call or receive you at
the immersion camp doing those,
you shits.
If you want to ask us questions or if you want to give us answers,
you can find us on the interwebs on Instagram.
Lafe is at Real Leif Babin on Twitter and on Dad Vaizey ball leaf is at Leif
Babin and of course on all of those echo is at Echo,
Charles and I m at Jockowillink Echo.
Anything else?
Negative Lafe any closing thoughts?
Good to be back on with you guys again or somebody gets up.
We always good to have you and thanks to everyone for listening and supporting
this podcast,
especially to those people that make this podcast possible.
People that make this podcast possible and it's not some long list of sponsors.
The people that make this podcast possible is our military,
our police,
law enforcement,
firefighters,
border patrol,
paramedics,
other first responders.
Without you protecting us from evil abroad and keeping us safe here at home,
we wouldn't be able to do what we do.
So thank you for doing what you do and to everyone else out there,
whether you are making something or baking something,
whether you're serving food or serving warrants,
whether you work in a bank or you build banks,
if you wear a suit and tie or you wear coveralls and a hard hat,
no matter who you are and what you do,
do it to the best of your ability.
Take pride in your work and be the best you can.
But at the same time,
stay balanced.
Be Aggressive,
but not reckless.
Take ownership,
but empower your team.
Be Humble,
but not passive.
Be disciplined,
but be free.
Balance.
That dichotomy is of leadership and the dichotomies of life.
And as you do that,
keep getting after it.
And until next time,
this is Lafe and echo and Jocko out.